# Input Subsystem

> 출처(원문): https://docs.kernel.org/driver-api/input.html
> 자동 미러링: docs.kernel.org · 정본은 출처 URL (영문 원문 자동 변환본)

---

# Input Subsystem

## Input core

struct input\_value
:   input value representation

**Definition**:

```
struct input_value {
    __u16 type;
    __u16 code;
    __s32 value;
};
```

**Members**

`type`
:   type of value (EV\_KEY, EV\_ABS, etc)

`code`
:   the value code

`value`
:   the value

struct input\_dev
:   represents an input device

**Definition**:

```
struct input_dev {
    const char *name;
    const char *phys;
    const char *uniq;
    struct input_id id;
    unsigned long propbit[BITS_TO_LONGS(INPUT_PROP_CNT)];
    unsigned long evbit[BITS_TO_LONGS(EV_CNT)];
    unsigned long keybit[BITS_TO_LONGS(KEY_CNT)];
    unsigned long relbit[BITS_TO_LONGS(REL_CNT)];
    unsigned long absbit[BITS_TO_LONGS(ABS_CNT)];
    unsigned long mscbit[BITS_TO_LONGS(MSC_CNT)];
    unsigned long ledbit[BITS_TO_LONGS(LED_CNT)];
    unsigned long sndbit[BITS_TO_LONGS(SND_CNT)];
    unsigned long ffbit[BITS_TO_LONGS(FF_CNT)];
    unsigned long swbit[BITS_TO_LONGS(SW_CNT)];
    unsigned int hint_events_per_packet;
    unsigned int keycodemax;
    unsigned int keycodesize;
    void *keycode;
    int (*setkeycode)(struct input_dev *dev, const struct input_keymap_entry *ke, unsigned int *old_keycode);
    int (*getkeycode)(struct input_dev *dev, struct input_keymap_entry *ke);
    struct ff_device *ff;
    struct input_dev_poller *poller;
    unsigned int repeat_key;
    struct timer_list timer;
    int rep[REP_CNT];
    struct input_mt *mt;
    struct input_absinfo *absinfo;
    unsigned long key[BITS_TO_LONGS(KEY_CNT)];
    unsigned long led[BITS_TO_LONGS(LED_CNT)];
    unsigned long snd[BITS_TO_LONGS(SND_CNT)];
    unsigned long sw[BITS_TO_LONGS(SW_CNT)];
    int (*open)(struct input_dev *dev);
    void (*close)(struct input_dev *dev);
    int (*flush)(struct input_dev *dev, struct file *file);
    int (*event)(struct input_dev *dev, unsigned int type, unsigned int code, int value);
    struct input_handle *grab;
    spinlock_t event_lock;
    struct mutex mutex;
    unsigned int users;
    bool going_away;
    struct device dev;
    struct list_head        h_list;
    struct list_head        node;
    unsigned int num_vals;
    unsigned int max_vals;
    struct input_value *vals;
    bool devres_managed;
    ktime_t timestamp[INPUT_CLK_MAX];
    bool inhibited;
};
```

**Members**

`name`
:   name of the device

`phys`
:   physical path to the device in the system hierarchy

`uniq`
:   unique identification code for the device (if device has it)

`id`
:   id of the device (`struct input_id`)

`propbit`
:   bitmap of device properties and quirks

`evbit`
:   bitmap of types of events supported by the device (EV\_KEY,
    EV\_REL, etc.)

`keybit`
:   bitmap of keys/buttons this device has

`relbit`
:   bitmap of relative axes for the device

`absbit`
:   bitmap of absolute axes for the device

`mscbit`
:   bitmap of miscellaneous events supported by the device

`ledbit`
:   bitmap of leds present on the device

`sndbit`
:   bitmap of sound effects supported by the device

`ffbit`
:   bitmap of force feedback effects supported by the device

`swbit`
:   bitmap of switches present on the device

`hint_events_per_packet`
:   average number of events generated by the
    device in a packet (between EV\_SYN/SYN\_REPORT events). Used by
    event handlers to estimate size of the buffer needed to hold
    events.

`keycodemax`
:   size of keycode table

`keycodesize`
:   size of elements in keycode table

`keycode`
:   map of scancodes to keycodes for this device

`setkeycode`
:   optional method to alter current keymap, used to implement
    sparse keymaps. If not supplied default mechanism will be used.
    The method is being called while holding event\_lock and thus must
    not sleep

`getkeycode`
:   optional legacy method to retrieve current keymap.

`ff`
:   force feedback structure associated with the device if device
    supports force feedback effects

`poller`
:   poller structure associated with the device if device is
    set up to use polling mode

`repeat_key`
:   stores key code of the last key pressed; used to implement
    software autorepeat

`timer`
:   timer for software autorepeat

`rep`
:   current values for autorepeat parameters (delay, rate)

`mt`
:   pointer to multitouch state

`absinfo`
:   array of `struct input_absinfo` elements holding information
    about absolute axes (current value, min, max, flat, fuzz,
    resolution)

`key`
:   reflects current state of device’s keys/buttons

`led`
:   reflects current state of device’s LEDs

`snd`
:   reflects current state of sound effects

`sw`
:   reflects current state of device’s switches

`open`
:   this method is called when the very first user calls
    [`input_open_device()`](#c.input_open_device "input_open_device"). The driver must prepare the device
    to start generating events (start polling thread,
    request an IRQ, submit URB, etc.). The meaning of open() is
    to start providing events to the input core.

`close`
:   this method is called when the very last user calls
    [`input_close_device()`](#c.input_close_device "input_close_device"). The meaning of close() is to stop
    providing events to the input core.

`flush`
:   purges the device. Most commonly used to get rid of force
    feedback effects loaded into the device when disconnecting
    from it

`event`
:   event handler for events sent \_to\_ the device, like EV\_LED
    or EV\_SND. The device is expected to carry out the requested
    action (turn on a LED, play sound, etc.) The call is protected
    by **event\_lock** and must not sleep

`grab`
:   input handle that currently has the device grabbed (via
    EVIOCGRAB ioctl). When a handle grabs a device it becomes sole
    recipient for all input events coming from the device

`event_lock`
:   this spinlock is taken when input core receives
    and processes a new event for the device (in [`input_event()`](#c.input_event "input_event")).
    Code that accesses and/or modifies parameters of a device
    (such as keymap or absmin, absmax, absfuzz, etc.) after device
    has been registered with input core must take this lock.

`mutex`
:   serializes calls to open(), close() and `flush()` methods

`users`
:   stores number of users (input handlers) that opened this
    device. It is used by [`input_open_device()`](#c.input_open_device "input_open_device") and [`input_close_device()`](#c.input_close_device "input_close_device")
    to make sure that dev->open() is only called when the first
    user opens device and dev->close() is called when the very
    last user closes the device

`going_away`
:   marks devices that are in a middle of unregistering and
    causes input\_open\_device\*() fail with -ENODEV.

`dev`
:   driver model’s view of this device

`h_list`
:   list of input handles associated with the device. When
    accessing the list dev->mutex must be held

`node`
:   used to place the device onto input\_dev\_list

`num_vals`
:   number of values queued in the current frame

`max_vals`
:   maximum number of values queued in a frame

`vals`
:   array of values queued in the current frame

`devres_managed`
:   indicates that devices is managed with devres framework
    and needs not be explicitly unregistered or freed.

`timestamp`
:   storage for a timestamp set by input\_set\_timestamp called
    by a driver

`inhibited`
:   indicates that the input device is inhibited. If that is
    the case then input core ignores any events generated by the device.
    Device’s close() is called when it is being inhibited and its open()
    is called when it is being uninhibited.

struct input\_handler
:   implements one of interfaces for input devices

**Definition**:

```
struct input_handler {
    void *private;
    void (*event)(struct input_handle *handle, unsigned int type, unsigned int code, int value);
    unsigned int (*events)(struct input_handle *handle, struct input_value *vals, unsigned int count);
    bool (*filter)(struct input_handle *handle, unsigned int type, unsigned int code, int value);
    bool (*match)(struct input_handler *handler, struct input_dev *dev);
    int (*connect)(struct input_handler *handler, struct input_dev *dev, const struct input_device_id *id);
    void (*disconnect)(struct input_handle *handle);
    void (*start)(struct input_handle *handle);
    bool passive_observer;
    bool legacy_minors;
    int minor;
    const char *name;
    const struct input_device_id *id_table;
    struct list_head        h_list;
    struct list_head        node;
};
```

**Members**

`private`
:   driver-specific data

`event`
:   event handler. This method is being called by input core with
    interrupts disabled and dev->event\_lock spinlock held and so
    it may not sleep

`events`
:   event sequence handler. This method is being called by
    input core with interrupts disabled and dev->event\_lock
    spinlock held and so it may not sleep. The method must return
    number of events passed to it.

`filter`
:   similar to **event**; separates normal event handlers from
    “filters”.

`match`
:   called after comparing device’s id with handler’s id\_table
    to perform fine-grained matching between device and handler

`connect`
:   called when attaching a handler to an input device

`disconnect`
:   disconnects a handler from input device

`start`
:   starts handler for given handle. This function is called by
    input core right after `connect()` method and also when a process
    that “grabbed” a device releases it

`passive_observer`
:   set to `true` by drivers only interested in observing
    data stream from devices if there are other users present. Such
    drivers will not result in starting underlying hardware device
    when [`input_open_device()`](#c.input_open_device "input_open_device") is called for their handles

`legacy_minors`
:   set to `true` by drivers using legacy minor ranges

`minor`
:   beginning of range of 32 legacy minors for devices this driver
    can provide

`name`
:   name of the handler, to be shown in /proc/bus/input/handlers

`id_table`
:   pointer to a table of input\_device\_ids this driver can
    handle

`h_list`
:   list of input handles associated with the handler

`node`
:   for placing the driver onto input\_handler\_list

**Description**

Input handlers attach to input devices and create input handles. There
are likely several handlers attached to any given input device at the
same time. All of them will get their copy of input event generated by
the device.

The very same structure is used to implement input filters. Input core
allows filters to run first and will not pass event to regular handlers
if any of the filters indicate that the event should be filtered (by
returning `true` from their `filter()` method).

Note that input core serializes calls to `connect()` and `disconnect()`
methods.

struct input\_handle
:   links input device with an input handler

**Definition**:

```
struct input_handle {
    void *private;
    int open;
    const char *name;
    struct input_dev *dev;
    struct input_handler *handler;
    unsigned int (*handle_events)(struct input_handle *handle, struct input_value *vals, unsigned int count);
    struct list_head        d_node;
    struct list_head        h_node;
};
```

**Members**

`private`
:   handler-specific data

`open`
:   counter showing whether the handle is ‘open’, i.e. should deliver
    events from its device

`name`
:   name given to the handle by handler that created it

`dev`
:   input device the handle is attached to

`handler`
:   handler that works with the device through this handle

`handle_events`
:   event sequence handler. It is set up by the input core
    according to event handling method specified in the **handler**. See
    `input_handle_setup_event_handler()`.
    This method is being called by the input core with interrupts disabled
    and dev->event\_lock spinlock held and so it may not sleep.

`d_node`
:   used to put the handle on device’s list of attached handles

`h_node`
:   used to put the handle on handler’s list of handles from which
    it gets events

void input\_set\_events\_per\_packet(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, int n\_events)
:   tell handlers about the driver event rate

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   the input device used by the driver

`int n_events`
:   the average number of events between calls to `input_sync()`

**Description**

If the event rate sent from a device is unusually large, use this
function to set the expected event rate. This will allow handlers
to set up an appropriate buffer size for the event stream, in order
to minimize information loss.

struct ff\_device
:   force-feedback part of an input device

**Definition**:

```
struct ff_device {
    int (*upload)(struct input_dev *dev, struct ff_effect *effect, struct ff_effect *old);
    int (*erase)(struct input_dev *dev, int effect_id);
    int (*playback)(struct input_dev *dev, int effect_id, int value);
    void (*set_gain)(struct input_dev *dev, u16 gain);
    void (*set_autocenter)(struct input_dev *dev, u16 magnitude);
    void (*destroy)(struct ff_device *);
    void *private;
    unsigned long ffbit[BITS_TO_LONGS(FF_CNT)];
    struct mutex mutex;
    int max_effects;
    struct ff_effect *effects;
    struct file *effect_owners[];
};
```

**Members**

`upload`
:   Called to upload an new effect into device

`erase`
:   Called to erase an effect from device

`playback`
:   Called to request device to start playing specified effect

`set_gain`
:   Called to set specified gain

`set_autocenter`
:   Called to auto-center device

`destroy`
:   called by input core when parent input device is being
    destroyed

`private`
:   driver-specific data, will be freed automatically

`ffbit`
:   bitmap of force feedback capabilities truly supported by
    device (not emulated like ones in input\_dev->ffbit)

`mutex`
:   mutex for serializing access to the device

`max_effects`
:   maximum number of effects supported by device

`effects`
:   pointer to an array of effects currently loaded into device

`effect_owners`
:   array of effect owners; when file handle owning
    an effect gets closed the effect is automatically erased

**Description**

Every force-feedback device must implement `upload()` and `playback()`
methods; `erase()` is optional. `set_gain()` and `set_autocenter()` need
only be implemented if driver sets up FF\_GAIN and FF\_AUTOCENTER
bits.

Note that `playback()`, `set_gain()` and `set_autocenter()` are called with
dev->event\_lock spinlock held and interrupts off and thus may not
sleep.

void input\_event(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, unsigned int type, unsigned int code, int value)
:   report new input event

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   device that generated the event

`unsigned int type`
:   type of the event

`unsigned int code`
:   event code

`int value`
:   value of the event

**Description**

This function should be used by drivers implementing various input
devices to report input events. See also [`input_inject_event()`](#c.input_inject_event "input_inject_event").

**NOTE**

[`input_event()`](#c.input_event "input_event") may be safely used right after input device was
allocated with [`input_allocate_device()`](#c.input_allocate_device "input_allocate_device"), even before it is registered
with [`input_register_device()`](#c.input_register_device "input_register_device"), but the event will not reach any of the
input handlers. Such early invocation of [`input_event()`](#c.input_event "input_event") may be used
to ‘seed’ initial state of a switch or initial position of absolute
axis, etc.

void input\_inject\_event(struct [input\_handle](#c.input_handle "input_handle") \*handle, unsigned int type, unsigned int code, int value)
:   send input event from input handler

**Parameters**

`struct input_handle *handle`
:   input handle to send event through

`unsigned int type`
:   type of the event

`unsigned int code`
:   event code

`int value`
:   value of the event

**Description**

Similar to [`input_event()`](#c.input_event "input_event") but will ignore event if device is
“grabbed” and handle injecting event is not the one that owns
the device.

void input\_alloc\_absinfo(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev)
:   allocates array of input\_absinfo structs

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   the input device emitting absolute events

**Description**

If the absinfo `struct the` caller asked for is already allocated, this
functions will not do anything.

void input\_copy\_abs(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dst, unsigned int dst\_axis, const struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*src, unsigned int src\_axis)
:   Copy absinfo from one input\_dev to another

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dst`
:   Destination input device to copy the abs settings to

`unsigned int dst_axis`
:   ABS\_\* value selecting the destination axis

`const struct input_dev *src`
:   Source input device to copy the abs settings from

`unsigned int src_axis`
:   ABS\_\* value selecting the source axis

**Description**

Set absinfo for the selected destination axis by copying it from
the specified source input device’s source axis.
This is useful to e.g. setup a pen/stylus input-device for combined
touchscreen/pen hardware where the pen uses the same coordinates as
the touchscreen.

int input\_grab\_device(struct [input\_handle](#c.input_handle "input_handle") \*handle)
:   grabs device for exclusive use

**Parameters**

`struct input_handle *handle`
:   input handle that wants to own the device

**Description**

When a device is grabbed by an input handle all events generated by
the device are delivered only to this handle. Also events injected
by other input handles are ignored while device is grabbed.

void input\_release\_device(struct [input\_handle](#c.input_handle "input_handle") \*handle)
:   release previously grabbed device

**Parameters**

`struct input_handle *handle`
:   input handle that owns the device

**Description**

Releases previously grabbed device so that other input handles can
start receiving input events. Upon release all handlers attached
to the device have their [`start()`](../networking/ieee802154.html#c.start "start") method called so they have a change
to synchronize device state with the rest of the system.

int input\_open\_device(struct [input\_handle](#c.input_handle "input_handle") \*handle)
:   open input device

**Parameters**

`struct input_handle *handle`
:   handle through which device is being accessed

**Description**

This function should be called by input handlers when they
want to start receive events from given input device.

void input\_close\_device(struct [input\_handle](#c.input_handle "input_handle") \*handle)
:   close input device

**Parameters**

`struct input_handle *handle`
:   handle through which device is being accessed

**Description**

This function should be called by input handlers when they
want to stop receive events from given input device.

int input\_scancode\_to\_scalar(const struct input\_keymap\_entry \*ke, unsigned int \*scancode)
:   converts scancode in `struct input_keymap_entry`

**Parameters**

`const struct input_keymap_entry *ke`
:   keymap entry containing scancode to be converted.

`unsigned int *scancode`
:   pointer to the location where converted scancode should
    be stored.

**Description**

This function is used to convert scancode stored in `struct keymap_entry`
into scalar form understood by legacy keymap handling methods. These
methods expect scancodes to be represented as ‘unsigned int’.

int input\_default\_setkeycode(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, const struct input\_keymap\_entry \*ke, unsigned int \*old\_keycode)
:   default setkeycode method

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device which keymap is being updated.

`const struct input_keymap_entry *ke`
:   new keymap entry.

`unsigned int *old_keycode`
:   pointer to the location where old keycode should be stored.

**Description**

This function is the default implementation of [`input_dev.setkeycode()`](#c.input_dev "input_dev")
method. It is typically used when a driver does not provide its own
implementation, but it is also exported so drivers can extend it.

The function must be called with [`input_dev.event_lock`](#c.input_dev "input_dev") held.

**Return**

0 on success, or a negative error code on failure.

int input\_get\_keycode(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, struct input\_keymap\_entry \*ke)
:   retrieve keycode currently mapped to a given scancode

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device which keymap is being queried

`struct input_keymap_entry *ke`
:   keymap entry

**Description**

This function should be called by anyone interested in retrieving current
keymap. Presently evdev handlers use it.

int input\_set\_keycode(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, const struct input\_keymap\_entry \*ke)
:   attribute a keycode to a given scancode

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device which keymap is being updated

`const struct input_keymap_entry *ke`
:   new keymap entry

**Description**

This function should be called by anyone needing to update current
keymap. Presently keyboard and evdev handlers use it.

void input\_reset\_device(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev)
:   reset/restore the state of input device

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device whose state needs to be reset

**Description**

This function tries to reset the state of an opened input device and
bring internal state and state if the hardware in sync with each other.
We mark all keys as released, restore LED state, repeat rate, etc.

struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*input\_allocate\_device(void)
:   allocate memory for new input device

**Parameters**

`void`
:   no arguments

**Description**

Returns prepared [`struct input_dev`](#c.input_dev "input_dev") or `NULL`.

**NOTE**

Use [`input_free_device()`](#c.input_free_device "input_free_device") to free devices that have not been
registered; [`input_unregister_device()`](#c.input_unregister_device "input_unregister_device") should be used for already
registered devices.

struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*devm\_input\_allocate\_device(struct [device](infrastructure.html#c.device "device") \*dev)
:   allocate managed input device

**Parameters**

`struct device *dev`
:   device owning the input device being created

**Description**

Returns prepared [`struct input_dev`](#c.input_dev "input_dev") or `NULL`.

Managed input devices do not need to be explicitly unregistered or
freed as it will be done automatically when owner device unbinds from
its driver (or binding fails). Once managed input device is allocated,
it is ready to be set up and registered in the same fashion as regular
input device. There are no special devm\_input\_device\_[un]register()
variants, regular ones work with both managed and unmanaged devices,
should you need them. In most cases however, managed input device need
not be explicitly unregistered or freed.

**NOTE**

the owner device is set up as parent of input device and users
should not override it.

void input\_free\_device(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev)
:   free memory occupied by input\_dev structure

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device to free

**Description**

This function should only be used if [`input_register_device()`](#c.input_register_device "input_register_device")
was not called yet or if it failed. Once device was registered
use [`input_unregister_device()`](#c.input_unregister_device "input_unregister_device") and memory will be freed once last
reference to the device is dropped.

Device should be allocated by [`input_allocate_device()`](#c.input_allocate_device "input_allocate_device").

**NOTE**

If there are references to the input device then memory
will not be freed until last reference is dropped.

void input\_set\_timestamp(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, ktime\_t timestamp)
:   set timestamp for input events

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device to set timestamp for

`ktime_t timestamp`
:   the time at which the event has occurred
    in CLOCK\_MONOTONIC

**Description**

This function is intended to provide to the input system a more
accurate time of when an event actually occurred. The driver should
call this function as soon as a timestamp is acquired ensuring
clock conversions in input\_set\_timestamp are done correctly.

The system entering suspend state between timestamp acquisition and
calling input\_set\_timestamp can result in inaccurate conversions.

ktime\_t \*input\_get\_timestamp(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev)
:   get timestamp for input events

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device to get timestamp from

**Description**

A valid timestamp is a timestamp of non-zero value.

void input\_set\_capability(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, unsigned int type, unsigned int code)
:   mark device as capable of a certain event

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   device that is capable of emitting or accepting event

`unsigned int type`
:   type of the event (EV\_KEY, EV\_REL, etc...)

`unsigned int code`
:   event code

**Description**

In addition to setting up corresponding bit in appropriate capability
bitmap the function also adjusts dev->evbit.

void input\_enable\_softrepeat(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, int delay, int period)
:   enable software autorepeat

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device

`int delay`
:   repeat delay

`int period`
:   repeat period

**Description**

Enable software autorepeat on the input device.

int input\_register\_device(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev)
:   register device with input core

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   device to be registered

**Description**

This function registers device with input core. The device must be
allocated with [`input_allocate_device()`](#c.input_allocate_device "input_allocate_device") and all it’s capabilities
set up before registering.
If function fails the device must be freed with [`input_free_device()`](#c.input_free_device "input_free_device").
Once device has been successfully registered it can be unregistered
with [`input_unregister_device()`](#c.input_unregister_device "input_unregister_device"); [`input_free_device()`](#c.input_free_device "input_free_device") should not be
called in this case.

Note that this function is also used to register managed input devices
(ones allocated with [`devm_input_allocate_device()`](#c.devm_input_allocate_device "devm_input_allocate_device")). Such managed input
devices need not be explicitly unregistered or freed, their tear down
is controlled by the devres infrastructure. It is also worth noting
that tear down of managed input devices is internally a 2-step process:
registered managed input device is first unregistered, but stays in
memory and can still handle [`input_event()`](#c.input_event "input_event") calls (although events will
not be delivered anywhere). The freeing of managed input device will
happen later, when devres stack is unwound to the point where device
allocation was made.

void input\_unregister\_device(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev)
:   unregister previously registered device

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   device to be unregistered

**Description**

This function unregisters an input device. Once device is unregistered
the caller should not try to access it as it may get freed at any moment.

int input\_register\_handler(struct [input\_handler](#c.input_handler "input_handler") \*handler)
:   register a new input handler

**Parameters**

`struct input_handler *handler`
:   handler to be registered

**Description**

This function registers a new input handler (interface) for input
devices in the system and attaches it to all input devices that
are compatible with the handler.

void input\_unregister\_handler(struct [input\_handler](#c.input_handler "input_handler") \*handler)
:   unregisters an input handler

**Parameters**

`struct input_handler *handler`
:   handler to be unregistered

**Description**

This function disconnects a handler from its input devices and
removes it from lists of known handlers.

int input\_handler\_for\_each\_handle(struct [input\_handler](#c.input_handler "input_handler") \*handler, void \*data, int (\*fn)(struct [input\_handle](#c.input_handle "input_handle")\*, void\*))
:   handle iterator

**Parameters**

`struct input_handler *handler`
:   input handler to iterate

`void *data`
:   data for the callback

`int (*fn)(struct input_handle *, void *)`
:   function to be called for each handle

**Description**

Iterate over **bus**’s list of devices, and call **fn** for each, passing
it **data** and stop when **fn** returns a non-zero value. The function is
using RCU to traverse the list and therefore may be using in atomic
contexts. The **fn** callback is invoked from RCU critical section and
thus must not sleep.

int input\_register\_handle(struct [input\_handle](#c.input_handle "input_handle") \*handle)
:   register a new input handle

**Parameters**

`struct input_handle *handle`
:   handle to register

**Description**

This function puts a new input handle onto device’s
and handler’s lists so that events can flow through
it once it is opened using [`input_open_device()`](#c.input_open_device "input_open_device").

This function is supposed to be called from handler’s
`connect()` method.

void input\_unregister\_handle(struct [input\_handle](#c.input_handle "input_handle") \*handle)
:   unregister an input handle

**Parameters**

`struct input_handle *handle`
:   handle to unregister

**Description**

This function removes input handle from device’s
and handler’s lists.

This function is supposed to be called from handler’s
`disconnect()` method.

int input\_get\_new\_minor(int legacy\_base, unsigned int legacy\_num, bool allow\_dynamic)
:   allocates a new input minor number

**Parameters**

`int legacy_base`
:   beginning or the legacy range to be searched

`unsigned int legacy_num`
:   size of legacy range

`bool allow_dynamic`
:   whether we can also take ID from the dynamic range

**Description**

This function allocates a new device minor for from input major namespace.
Caller can request legacy minor by specifying **legacy\_base** and **legacy\_num**
parameters and whether ID can be allocated from dynamic range if there are
no free IDs in legacy range.

void input\_free\_minor(unsigned int minor)
:   release previously allocated minor

**Parameters**

`unsigned int minor`
:   minor to be released

**Description**

This function releases previously allocated input minor so that it can be
reused later.

int input\_ff\_upload(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, struct ff\_effect \*effect, struct [file](#c.input_ff_upload "file") \*file)
:   upload effect into force-feedback device

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device

`struct ff_effect *effect`
:   effect to be uploaded

`struct file *file`
:   owner of the effect

int input\_ff\_erase(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, int effect\_id, struct [file](#c.input_ff_erase "file") \*file)
:   erase a force-feedback effect from device

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device to erase effect from

`int effect_id`
:   id of the effect to be erased

`struct file *file`
:   purported owner of the request

**Description**

This function erases a force-feedback effect from specified device.
The effect will only be erased if it was uploaded through the same
file handle that is requesting erase.

int input\_ff\_event(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, unsigned int type, unsigned int code, int value)
:   generic handler for force-feedback events

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device to send the effect to

`unsigned int type`
:   event type (anything but EV\_FF is ignored)

`unsigned int code`
:   event code

`int value`
:   event value

int input\_ff\_create(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, unsigned int max\_effects)
:   create force-feedback device

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device supporting force-feedback

`unsigned int max_effects`
:   maximum number of effects supported by the device

**Description**

This function allocates all necessary memory for a force feedback
portion of an input device and installs all default handlers.
**dev->ffbit** should be already set up before calling this function.
Once ff device is created you need to setup its upload, erase,
playback and other handlers before registering input device

void input\_ff\_destroy(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev)
:   frees force feedback portion of input device

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device supporting force feedback

**Description**

This function is only needed in error path as input core will
automatically free force feedback structures when device is
destroyed.

int input\_ff\_create\_memless(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, void \*data, int (\*play\_effect)(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev")\*, void\*, struct ff\_effect\*))
:   create memoryless force-feedback device

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device supporting force-feedback

`void *data`
:   driver-specific data to be passed into **play\_effect**

`int (*play_effect)(struct input_dev *, void *, struct ff_effect *)`
:   driver-specific method for playing FF effect

## Multitouch Library

struct input\_mt\_slot
:   represents the state of an input MT slot

**Definition**:

```
struct input_mt_slot {
    int abs[ABS_MT_LAST - ABS_MT_FIRST + 1];
    unsigned int frame;
    unsigned int key;
};
```

**Members**

`abs`
:   holds current values of ABS\_MT axes for this slot

`frame`
:   last frame at which [`input_mt_report_slot_state()`](#c.input_mt_report_slot_state "input_mt_report_slot_state") was called

`key`
:   optional driver designation of this slot

struct input\_mt
:   state of tracked contacts

**Definition**:

```
struct input_mt {
    int trkid;
    int num_slots;
    int slot;
    unsigned int flags;
    unsigned int frame;
    int *red;
    struct input_mt_slot slots[];
};
```

**Members**

`trkid`
:   stores MT tracking ID for the next contact

`num_slots`
:   number of MT slots the device uses

`slot`
:   MT slot currently being transmitted

`flags`
:   input\_mt operation flags

`frame`
:   increases every time [`input_mt_sync_frame()`](#c.input_mt_sync_frame "input_mt_sync_frame") is called

`red`
:   reduced cost matrix for in-kernel tracking

`slots`
:   array of slots holding current values of tracked contacts

struct input\_mt\_pos
:   contact position

**Definition**:

```
struct input_mt_pos {
    s16 x, y;
};
```

**Members**

`x`
:   horizontal coordinate

`y`
:   vertical coordinate

int input\_mt\_init\_slots(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, unsigned int num\_slots, unsigned int flags)
:   initialize MT input slots

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device supporting MT events and finger tracking

`unsigned int num_slots`
:   number of slots used by the device

`unsigned int flags`
:   mt tasks to handle in core

**Description**

This function allocates all necessary memory for MT slot handling
in the input device, prepares the ABS\_MT\_SLOT and
ABS\_MT\_TRACKING\_ID events for use and sets up appropriate buffers.
Depending on the flags set, it also performs pointer emulation and
frame synchronization.

May be called repeatedly. Returns -EINVAL if attempting to
reinitialize with a different number of slots.

void input\_mt\_destroy\_slots(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev)
:   frees the MT slots of the input device

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device with allocated MT slots

**Description**

This function is only needed in error path as the input core will
automatically free the MT slots when the device is destroyed.

bool input\_mt\_report\_slot\_state(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, unsigned int tool\_type, bool active)
:   report contact state

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device with allocated MT slots

`unsigned int tool_type`
:   the tool type to use in this slot

`bool active`
:   true if contact is active, false otherwise

**Description**

Reports a contact via ABS\_MT\_TRACKING\_ID, and optionally
ABS\_MT\_TOOL\_TYPE. If active is true and the slot is currently
inactive, or if the tool type is changed, a new tracking id is
assigned to the slot. The tool type is only reported if the
corresponding absbit field is set.

Returns true if contact is active.

void input\_mt\_report\_finger\_count(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, int count)
:   report contact count

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device with allocated MT slots

`int count`
:   the number of contacts

**Description**

Reports the contact count via BTN\_TOOL\_FINGER, BTN\_TOOL\_DOUBLETAP,
BTN\_TOOL\_TRIPLETAP and BTN\_TOOL\_QUADTAP.

The input core ensures only the KEY events already setup for
this device will produce output.

void input\_mt\_report\_pointer\_emulation(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, bool use\_count)
:   common pointer emulation

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device with allocated MT slots

`bool use_count`
:   report number of active contacts as finger count

**Description**

Performs legacy pointer emulation via BTN\_TOUCH, ABS\_X, ABS\_Y and
ABS\_PRESSURE. Touchpad finger count is emulated if use\_count is true.

The input core ensures only the KEY and ABS axes already setup for
this device will produce output.

void input\_mt\_drop\_unused(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev)
:   Inactivate slots not seen in this frame

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device with allocated MT slots

**Description**

Lift all slots not seen since the last call to this function.

void input\_mt\_sync\_frame(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev)
:   synchronize mt frame

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device with allocated MT slots

**Description**

Close the frame and prepare the internal state for a new one.
Depending on the flags, marks unused slots as inactive and performs
pointer emulation.

int input\_mt\_assign\_slots(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, int \*slots, const struct [input\_mt\_pos](#c.input_mt_pos "input_mt_pos") \*pos, int num\_pos, int dmax)
:   perform a best-match assignment

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device with allocated MT slots

`int *slots`
:   the slot assignment to be filled

`const struct input_mt_pos *pos`
:   the position array to match

`int num_pos`
:   number of positions

`int dmax`
:   maximum ABS\_MT\_POSITION displacement (zero for infinite)

**Description**

Performs a best match against the current contacts and returns
the slot assignment list. New contacts are assigned to unused
slots.

The assignments are balanced so that all coordinate displacements are
below the euclidian distance dmax. If no such assignment can be found,
some contacts are assigned to unused slots.

Returns zero on success, or negative error in case of failure.

int input\_mt\_get\_slot\_by\_key(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, int key)
:   return slot matching key

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   input device with allocated MT slots

`int key`
:   the key of the sought slot

**Description**

Returns the slot of the given key, if it exists, otherwise
set the key on the first unused slot and return.

If no available slot can be found, -1 is returned.
Note that for this function to work properly, [`input_mt_sync_frame()`](#c.input_mt_sync_frame "input_mt_sync_frame") has
to be called at each frame.

## Matrix keyboards/keypads

struct matrix\_keymap\_data
:   keymap for matrix keyboards

**Definition**:

```
struct matrix_keymap_data {
    const uint32_t *keymap;
    unsigned int    keymap_size;
};
```

**Members**

`keymap`
:   pointer to array of uint32 values encoded with `KEY()` macro
    representing keymap

`keymap_size`
:   number of entries (initialized) in this keymap

**Description**

This structure is supposed to be used by platform code to supply
keymaps to drivers that implement matrix-like keypads/keyboards.

## Sparse keymap support

struct key\_entry
:   keymap entry for use in sparse keymap

**Definition**:

```
struct key_entry {
    int type;
    u32 code;
    union {
        u16 keycode;
        struct {
            u8 code;
            u8 value;
        } sw;
    };
};
```

**Members**

`type`
:   Type of the key entry (KE\_KEY, KE\_SW, KE\_VSW, KE\_END);
    drivers are allowed to extend the list with their own
    private definitions.

`code`
:   Device-specific data identifying the button/switch

`{unnamed_union}`
:   anonymous

`keycode`
:   KEY\_\* code assigned to a key/button

`sw`
:   `struct with` code/value used by KE\_SW and KE\_VSW

`sw.code`
:   SW\_\* code assigned to a switch

`sw.value`
:   Value that should be sent in an input even when KE\_SW
    switch is toggled. KE\_VSW switches ignore this field and
    expect driver to supply value for the event.

**Description**

This structure defines an entry in a sparse keymap used by some
input devices for which traditional table-based approach is not
suitable.

struct [key\_entry](#c.key_entry "key_entry") \*sparse\_keymap\_entry\_from\_scancode(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, unsigned int code)
:   perform sparse keymap lookup

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   Input device using sparse keymap

`unsigned int code`
:   Scan code

**Description**

This function is used to perform [`struct key_entry`](#c.key_entry "key_entry") lookup in an
input device using sparse keymap.

struct [key\_entry](#c.key_entry "key_entry") \*sparse\_keymap\_entry\_from\_keycode(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, unsigned int keycode)
:   perform sparse keymap lookup

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   Input device using sparse keymap

`unsigned int keycode`
:   Key code

**Description**

This function is used to perform [`struct key_entry`](#c.key_entry "key_entry") lookup in an
input device using sparse keymap.

int sparse\_keymap\_setup(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, const struct [key\_entry](#c.key_entry "key_entry") \*keymap, int (\*setup)(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev")\*, struct [key\_entry](#c.key_entry "key_entry")\*))
:   set up sparse keymap for an input device

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   Input device

`const struct key_entry *keymap`
:   Keymap in form of array of [`key_entry`](#c.key_entry "key_entry") structures ending
    with `KE_END` type entry

`int (*setup)(struct input_dev *, struct key_entry *)`
:   Function that can be used to adjust keymap entries
    depending on device’s needs, may be `NULL`

**Description**

The function calculates size and allocates copy of the original
keymap after which sets up input device event bits appropriately.
The allocated copy of the keymap is automatically freed when it
is no longer needed.

void sparse\_keymap\_report\_entry(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, const struct [key\_entry](#c.key_entry "key_entry") \*ke, unsigned int value, bool autorelease)
:   report event corresponding to given key entry

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   Input device for which event should be reported

`const struct key_entry *ke`
:   key entry describing event

`unsigned int value`
:   Value that should be reported (ignored by `KE_SW` entries)

`bool autorelease`
:   Signals whether release event should be emitted for `KE_KEY`
    entries right after reporting press event, ignored by all other
    entries

**Description**

This function is used to report input event described by given
[`struct key_entry`](#c.key_entry "key_entry").

bool sparse\_keymap\_report\_event(struct [input\_dev](#c.input_dev "input_dev") \*dev, unsigned int code, unsigned int value, bool autorelease)
:   report event corresponding to given scancode

**Parameters**

`struct input_dev *dev`
:   Input device using sparse keymap

`unsigned int code`
:   Scan code

`unsigned int value`
:   Value that should be reported (ignored by `KE_SW` entries)

`bool autorelease`
:   Signals whether release event should be emitted for `KE_KEY`
    entries right after reporting press event, ignored by all other
    entries

**Description**

This function is used to perform lookup in an input device using sparse
keymap and report corresponding event. Returns `true` if lookup was
successful and `false` otherwise.

## PS/2 protocol support

enum ps2\_disposition
:   indicates how received byte should be handled

**Constants**

`PS2_PROCESS`
:   pass to the main protocol handler, process normally

`PS2_IGNORE`
:   skip the byte

`PS2_ERROR`
:   do not process the byte, abort command in progress

struct ps2dev
:   represents a device using PS/2 protocol

**Definition**:

```
struct ps2dev {
    struct serio *serio;
    struct mutex cmd_mutex;
    wait_queue_head_t wait;
    unsigned long flags;
    u8 cmdbuf[8];
    u8 cmdcnt;
    u8 nak;
    ps2_pre_receive_handler_t pre_receive_handler;
    ps2_receive_handler_t receive_handler;
};
```

**Members**

`serio`
:   a serio port used by the PS/2 device

`cmd_mutex`
:   a mutex ensuring that only one command is executing at a time

`wait`
:   a waitqueue used to signal completion from the serio interrupt handler

`flags`
:   various internal flags indicating stages of PS/2 command execution

`cmdbuf`
:   buffer holding command response

`cmdcnt`
:   outstanding number of bytes of the command response

`nak`
:   a byte transmitted by the device when it refuses command

`pre_receive_handler`
:   checks communication errors and returns disposition
    ([`enum ps2_disposition`](#c.ps2_disposition "ps2_disposition")) of the received data byte

`receive_handler`
:   main handler of particular PS/2 protocol, such as keyboard
    or mouse protocol

int ps2\_sendbyte(struct [ps2dev](#c.ps2_sendbyte "ps2dev") \*ps2dev, u8 byte, unsigned int timeout)
:   sends a byte to the device and wait for acknowledgement

**Parameters**

`struct ps2dev *ps2dev`
:   a PS/2 device to send the data to

`u8 byte`
:   data to be sent to the device

`unsigned int timeout`
:   timeout for sending the data and receiving an acknowledge

**Description**

The function doesn’t handle retransmission, the caller is expected to handle
it when needed.

[`ps2_sendbyte()`](#c.ps2_sendbyte "ps2_sendbyte") can only be called from a process context.

void ps2\_begin\_command(struct [ps2dev](#c.ps2_begin_command "ps2dev") \*ps2dev)
:   mark beginning of execution of a complex command

**Parameters**

`struct ps2dev *ps2dev`
:   a PS/2 device executing the command

**Description**

Serializes a complex/compound command. Once command is finished
[`ps2_end_command()`](#c.ps2_end_command "ps2_end_command") should be called.

void ps2\_end\_command(struct [ps2dev](#c.ps2_end_command "ps2dev") \*ps2dev)
:   mark end of execution of a complex command

**Parameters**

`struct ps2dev *ps2dev`
:   a PS/2 device executing the command

void ps2\_drain(struct [ps2dev](#c.ps2_drain "ps2dev") \*ps2dev, size\_t maxbytes, unsigned int timeout)
:   waits for device to transmit requested number of bytes and discards them

**Parameters**

`struct ps2dev *ps2dev`
:   the PS/2 device that should be drained

`size_t maxbytes`
:   maximum number of bytes to be drained

`unsigned int timeout`
:   time to drain the device

bool ps2\_is\_keyboard\_id(u8 id\_byte)
:   checks received ID byte against the list of known keyboard IDs

**Parameters**

`u8 id_byte`
:   data byte that should be checked

int \_\_ps2\_command(struct [ps2dev](#c.__ps2_command "ps2dev") \*ps2dev, u8 \*param, unsigned int command)
:   send a command to PS/2 device

**Parameters**

`struct ps2dev *ps2dev`
:   the PS/2 device that should execute the command

`u8 *param`
:   a buffer containing parameters to be sent along with the command,
    or place where the results of the command execution will be deposited,
    or both

`unsigned int command`
:   command word that encodes the command itself, as well as number of
    additional parameter bytes that should be sent to the device and expected
    length of the command response

**Description**

Not serialized. Callers should use [`ps2_begin_command()`](#c.ps2_begin_command "ps2_begin_command") and [`ps2_end_command()`](#c.ps2_end_command "ps2_end_command")
to ensure proper serialization for complex commands.

int ps2\_command(struct [ps2dev](#c.ps2_command "ps2dev") \*ps2dev, u8 \*param, unsigned int command)
:   send a command to PS/2 device

**Parameters**

`struct ps2dev *ps2dev`
:   the PS/2 device that should execute the command

`u8 *param`
:   a buffer containing parameters to be sent along with the command,
    or place where the results of the command execution will be deposited,
    or both

`unsigned int command`
:   command word that encodes the command itself, as well as number of
    additional parameter bytes that should be sent to the device and expected
    length of the command response

**Note**

[`ps2_command()`](#c.ps2_command "ps2_command") serializes the command execution so that only one
command can be executed at a time for either individual port or the entire
8042 controller.

int ps2\_sliced\_command(struct [ps2dev](#c.ps2_sliced_command "ps2dev") \*ps2dev, u8 command)
:   sends an extended PS/2 command to a mouse

**Parameters**

`struct ps2dev *ps2dev`
:   the PS/2 device that should execute the command

`u8 command`
:   command byte

**Description**

The command is sent using “sliced” syntax understood by advanced devices,
such as Logitech or Synaptics touchpads. The command is encoded as:
0xE6 0xE8 rr 0xE8 ss 0xE8 tt 0xE8 uu where (rr\*64)+(ss\*16)+(tt\*4)+uu
is the command.

void ps2\_init(struct [ps2dev](#c.ps2_init "ps2dev") \*ps2dev, struct [serio](#c.ps2_init "serio") \*serio, ps2\_pre\_receive\_handler\_t pre\_receive\_handler, ps2\_receive\_handler\_t receive\_handler)
:   initializes ps2dev structure

**Parameters**

`struct ps2dev *ps2dev`
:   structure to be initialized

`struct serio *serio`
:   serio port associated with the PS/2 device

`ps2_pre_receive_handler_t pre_receive_handler`
:   validation handler to check basic communication state

`ps2_receive_handler_t receive_handler`
:   main protocol handler

**Description**

Prepares ps2dev structure for use in drivers for PS/2 devices.

irqreturn\_t ps2\_interrupt(struct [serio](#c.ps2_interrupt "serio") \*serio, u8 data, unsigned int flags)
:   common interrupt handler for PS/2 devices

**Parameters**

`struct serio *serio`
:   serio port for the device

`u8 data`
:   a data byte received from the device

`unsigned int flags`
:   flags such as `SERIO_PARITY` or `SERIO_TIMEOUT` indicating state of
    the data transfer

**Description**

[`ps2_interrupt()`](#c.ps2_interrupt "ps2_interrupt") invokes pre-receive handler, optionally handles command
acknowledgement and response from the device, and finally passes the data
to the main protocol handler for future processing.
