# 7.4.The cx88 driver

> 출처(원문): https://docs.kernel.org/admin-guide/media/cx88.html
> 자동 미러링: docs.kernel.org · 정본은 출처 URL (영문 원문 자동 변환본)

---

# 7.4. The cx88 driver

Author: Gerd Hoffmann

This is a v4l2 device driver for the cx2388x chip.

## 7.4.1. Current status

video
:   * Works.
    * Overlay isn’t supported.

audio
:   * Works. The TV standard detection is made by the driver, as the
      hardware has bugs to auto-detect.
    * audio data dma (i.e. recording without loopback cable to the
      sound card) is supported via cx88-alsa.

vbi
:   * Works.

## 7.4.2. How to add support for new cards

The driver needs some config info for the TV cards. This stuff is in
cx88-cards.c. If the driver doesn’t work well you likely need a new
entry for your card in that file. Check the kernel log (using dmesg)
to see whenever the driver knows your card or not. There is a line
like this one:

```
cx8800[0]: subsystem: 0070:3400, board: Hauppauge WinTV \
        34xxx models [card=1,autodetected]
```

If your card is listed as “board: UNKNOWN/GENERIC” it is unknown to
the driver. What to do then?

1. Try upgrading to the latest snapshot, maybe it has been added
   meanwhile.
2. You can try to create a new entry yourself, have a look at
   cx88-cards.c. If that worked, mail me your changes as unified
   diff (“diff -u”).
3. Or you can mail me the config information. We need at least the
   following information to add the card:

   > * the PCI Subsystem ID (“0070:3400” from the line above,
   >   “lspci -v” output is fine too).
   > * the tuner type used by the card. You can try to find one by
   >   trial-and-error using the tuner=<n> insmod option. If you
   >   know which one the card has you can also have a look at the
   >   list in CARDLIST.tuner
