# Kernel driver pcf8591

> 출처(원문): https://docs.kernel.org/hwmon/pcf8591.html
> 자동 미러링: docs.kernel.org · 정본은 출처 URL (영문 원문 자동 변환본)

---

# Kernel driver pcf8591

Supported chips:

> * Philips/NXP PCF8591
>
>   Prefix: ‘pcf8591’
>
>   Addresses scanned: none
>
>   Datasheet: Publicly available at the NXP website
>
>   > <http://www.nxp.com/pip/PCF8591_6.html>

Authors:
:   * Aurelien Jarno <[aurelien@aurel32.net](mailto:aurelien%40aurel32.net)>
    * valuable contributions by Jan M. Sendler <[sendler@sendler.de](mailto:sendler%40sendler.de)>,
    * Jean Delvare <[jdelvare@suse.de](mailto:jdelvare%40suse.de)>

## Description

The PCF8591 is an 8-bit A/D and D/A converter (4 analog inputs and one
analog output) for the I2C bus produced by Philips Semiconductors (now NXP).
It is designed to provide a byte I2C interface to up to 4 separate devices.

The PCF8591 has 4 analog inputs programmable as single-ended or
differential inputs:

* mode 0four single ended inputs
  :   Pins AIN0 to AIN3 are single ended inputs for channels 0 to 3
* mode 1three differential inputs
  :   Pins AIN3 is the common negative differential input
      Pins AIN0 to AIN2 are positive differential inputs for channels 0 to 2
* mode 2single ended and differential mixed
  :   Pins AIN0 and AIN1 are single ended inputs for channels 0 and 1
      Pins AIN2 is the positive differential input for channel 3
      Pins AIN3 is the negative differential input for channel 3
* mode 3two differential inputs
  :   Pins AIN0 is the positive differential input for channel 0
      Pins AIN1 is the negative differential input for channel 0
      Pins AIN2 is the positive differential input for channel 1
      Pins AIN3 is the negative differential input for channel 1

See the datasheet for details.

## Module parameters

* input\_mode int

  > Analog input mode:
  >
  > > + 0 = four single ended inputs
  > > + 1 = three differential inputs
  > > + 2 = single ended and differential mixed
  > > + 3 = two differential inputs

## Accessing PCF8591 via /sys interface

The PCF8591 is plainly impossible to detect! Thus the driver won’t even
try. You have to explicitly instantiate the device at the relevant
address (in the interval [0x48..0x4f]) either through platform data, or
using the sysfs interface. See [How to instantiate I2C devices](../i2c/instantiating-devices.html)
for details.

Directories are being created for each instantiated PCF8591:

/sys/bus/i2c/devices/<0>-<1>/
:   where <0> is the bus the chip is connected to (e. g. i2c-0)
    and <1> the chip address ([48..4f])

Inside these directories, there are such files:

> in0\_input, in1\_input, in2\_input, in3\_input, out0\_enable, out0\_output, name

Name contains chip name.

The in0\_input, in1\_input, in2\_input and in3\_input files are RO. Reading gives
the value of the corresponding channel. Depending on the current analog inputs
configuration, files in2\_input and in3\_input may not exist. Values range
from 0 to 255 for single ended inputs and -128 to +127 for differential inputs
(8-bit ADC).

The out0\_enable file is RW. Reading gives “1” for analog output enabled and
“0” for analog output disabled. Writing accepts “0” and “1” accordingly.

The out0\_output file is RW. Writing a number between 0 and 255 (8-bit DAC), send
the value to the digital-to-analog converter. Note that a voltage will
only appears on AOUT pin if aout0\_enable equals 1. Reading returns the last
value written.
