# cfg80211 subsystem

> 출처(원문): https://docs.kernel.org/driver-api/80211/cfg80211.html
> 자동 미러링: docs.kernel.org · 정본은 출처 URL (영문 원문 자동 변환본)

---

# cfg80211 subsystem

cfg80211 is the configuration API for 802.11 devices in Linux. It bridges
userspace and drivers, and offers some utility functionality associated
with 802.11. cfg80211 must, directly or indirectly via mac80211, be used
by all modern wireless drivers in Linux, so that they offer a consistent
API through nl80211. For backward compatibility, cfg80211 also offers
wireless extensions to userspace, but hides them from drivers completely.

Additionally, cfg80211 contains code to help enforce regulatory spectrum
use restrictions.

## Device registration

In order for a driver to use cfg80211, it must register the hardware device
with cfg80211. This happens through a number of hardware capability structs
described below.

The fundamental structure for each device is the ‘wiphy’, of which each
instance describes a physical wireless device connected to the system. Each
such wiphy can have zero, one, or many virtual interfaces associated with
it, which need to be identified as such by pointing the network interface’s
**ieee80211\_ptr** pointer to a [`struct wireless_dev`](#c.wireless_dev "wireless_dev") which further describes
the wireless part of the interface. Normally this `struct is` embedded in the
network interface’s private data area. Drivers can optionally allow creating
or destroying virtual interfaces on the fly, but without at least one or the
ability to create some the wireless device isn’t useful.

Each wiphy structure contains device capability information, and also has
a pointer to the various operations the driver offers. The definitions and
structures here describe these capabilities in detail.

enum ieee80211\_channel\_flags
:   channel flags

**Constants**

`IEEE80211_CHAN_DISABLED`
:   This channel is disabled.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_IR`
:   do not initiate radiation, this includes
    sending probe requests or beaconing.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_PSD`
:   Power spectral density (in dBm) is set for this
    channel.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_RADAR`
:   Radar detection is required on this channel.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_HT40PLUS`
:   extension channel above this channel
    is not permitted.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_HT40MINUS`
:   extension channel below this channel
    is not permitted.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_OFDM`
:   OFDM is not allowed on this channel.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_80MHZ`
:   If the driver supports 80 MHz on the band,
    this flag indicates that an 80 MHz channel cannot use this
    channel as the control or any of the secondary channels.
    This may be due to the driver or due to regulatory bandwidth
    restrictions.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_160MHZ`
:   If the driver supports 160 MHz on the band,
    this flag indicates that an 160 MHz channel cannot use this
    channel as the control or any of the secondary channels.
    This may be due to the driver or due to regulatory bandwidth
    restrictions.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_INDOOR_ONLY`
:   see `NL80211_FREQUENCY_ATTR_INDOOR_ONLY`

`IEEE80211_CHAN_IR_CONCURRENT`
:   see `NL80211_FREQUENCY_ATTR_IR_CONCURRENT`

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_20MHZ`
:   20 MHz bandwidth is not permitted
    on this channel.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_10MHZ`
:   10 MHz bandwidth is not permitted
    on this channel.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_HE`
:   HE operation is not permitted on this channel.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_UHR`
:   UHR operation is not permitted on this channel.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_320MHZ`
:   If the driver supports 320 MHz on the band,
    this flag indicates that a 320 MHz channel cannot use this
    channel as the control or any of the secondary channels.
    This may be due to the driver or due to regulatory bandwidth
    restrictions.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_EHT`
:   EHT operation is not permitted on this channel.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_DFS_CONCURRENT`
:   See `NL80211_RRF_DFS_CONCURRENT`

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_6GHZ_VLP_CLIENT`
:   Client connection with VLP AP
    not permitted using this channel

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_6GHZ_AFC_CLIENT`
:   Client connection with AFC AP
    not permitted using this channel

`IEEE80211_CHAN_CAN_MONITOR`
:   This channel can be used for monitor
    mode even in the presence of other (regulatory) restrictions,
    even if it is otherwise disabled.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_ALLOW_6GHZ_VLP_AP`
:   Allow using this channel for AP operation
    with very low power (VLP), even if otherwise set to NO\_IR.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_ALLOW_20MHZ_ACTIVITY`
:   Allow activity on a 20 MHz channel,
    even if otherwise set to NO\_IR.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_S1G_NO_PRIMARY`
:   Prevents the channel for use as an S1G
    primary channel. Does not prevent the wider operating channel
    described by the chandef from being used. In order for a 2MHz primary
    to be used, both 1MHz subchannels shall not contain this flag.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_4MHZ`
:   4 MHz bandwidth is not permitted on this channel.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_8MHZ`
:   8 MHz bandwidth is not permitted on this channel.

`IEEE80211_CHAN_NO_16MHZ`
:   16 MHz bandwidth is not permitted on this channel.

**Description**

Channel flags set by the regulatory control code.

struct ieee80211\_channel
:   channel definition

**Definition**:

```
struct ieee80211_channel {
    enum nl80211_band band;
    u32 center_freq;
    u16 freq_offset;
    u16 hw_value;
    u32 flags;
    int max_antenna_gain;
    int max_power;
    int max_reg_power;
    bool beacon_found;
    u32 orig_flags;
    int orig_mag, orig_mpwr;
    enum nl80211_dfs_state dfs_state;
    unsigned long dfs_state_entered;
    unsigned int dfs_cac_ms;
    u64 cac_start_time;
    s8 psd;
};
```

**Members**

`band`
:   band this channel belongs to.

`center_freq`
:   center frequency in MHz

`freq_offset`
:   offset from **center\_freq**, in KHz

`hw_value`
:   hardware-specific value for the channel

`flags`
:   channel flags from [`enum ieee80211_channel_flags`](#c.ieee80211_channel_flags "ieee80211_channel_flags").

`max_antenna_gain`
:   maximum antenna gain in dBi

`max_power`
:   maximum transmission power (in dBm)

`max_reg_power`
:   maximum regulatory transmission power (in dBm)

`beacon_found`
:   helper to regulatory code to indicate when a beacon
    has been found on this channel. Use `regulatory_hint_found_beacon()`
    to enable this, this is useful only on 5 GHz band.

`orig_flags`
:   channel flags at registration time, used by regulatory
    code to support devices with additional restrictions

`orig_mag`
:   internal use

`orig_mpwr`
:   internal use

`dfs_state`
:   current state of this channel. Only relevant if radar is required
    on this channel.

`dfs_state_entered`
:   timestamp (jiffies) when the dfs state was entered.

`dfs_cac_ms`
:   DFS CAC time in milliseconds, this is valid for DFS channels.

`cac_start_time`
:   timestamp (CLOCK\_BOOTTIME, nanoseconds) when CAC was
    started on this channel. Zero when CAC is not in progress.

`psd`
:   power spectral density (in dBm)

**Description**

This structure describes a single channel for use
with cfg80211.

enum ieee80211\_rate\_flags
:   rate flags

**Constants**

`IEEE80211_RATE_SHORT_PREAMBLE`
:   Hardware can send with short
    preamble on this bitrate; only relevant in 2.4GHz band and
    with CCK rates.

`IEEE80211_RATE_MANDATORY_A`
:   This bitrate is a mandatory rate
    when used with 802.11a (on the 5 GHz band); filled by the
    core code when registering the wiphy.

`IEEE80211_RATE_MANDATORY_B`
:   This bitrate is a mandatory rate
    when used with 802.11b (on the 2.4 GHz band); filled by the
    core code when registering the wiphy.

`IEEE80211_RATE_MANDATORY_G`
:   This bitrate is a mandatory rate
    when used with 802.11g (on the 2.4 GHz band); filled by the
    core code when registering the wiphy.

`IEEE80211_RATE_ERP_G`
:   This is an ERP rate in 802.11g mode.

`IEEE80211_RATE_SUPPORTS_5MHZ`
:   Rate can be used in 5 MHz mode

`IEEE80211_RATE_SUPPORTS_10MHZ`
:   Rate can be used in 10 MHz mode

**Description**

Hardware/specification flags for rates. These are structured
in a way that allows using the same bitrate structure for
different bands/PHY modes.

struct ieee80211\_rate
:   bitrate definition

**Definition**:

```
struct ieee80211_rate {
    u32 flags;
    u16 bitrate;
    u16 hw_value, hw_value_short;
};
```

**Members**

`flags`
:   rate-specific flags from [`enum ieee80211_rate_flags`](#c.ieee80211_rate_flags "ieee80211_rate_flags")

`bitrate`
:   bitrate in units of 100 Kbps

`hw_value`
:   driver/hardware value for this rate

`hw_value_short`
:   driver/hardware value for this rate when
    short preamble is used

**Description**

This structure describes a bitrate that an 802.11 PHY can
operate with. The two values **hw\_value** and **hw\_value\_short**
are only for driver use when pointers to this structure are
passed around.

struct ieee80211\_sta\_ht\_cap
:   STA’s HT capabilities

**Definition**:

```
struct ieee80211_sta_ht_cap {
    u16 cap;
    bool ht_supported;
    u8 ampdu_factor;
    u8 ampdu_density;
    struct ieee80211_mcs_info mcs;
};
```

**Members**

`cap`
:   HT capabilities map as described in 802.11n spec

`ht_supported`
:   is HT supported by the STA

`ampdu_factor`
:   Maximum A-MPDU length factor

`ampdu_density`
:   Minimum A-MPDU spacing

`mcs`
:   Supported MCS rates

**Description**

This structure describes most essential parameters needed
to describe 802.11n HT capabilities for an STA.

struct ieee80211\_supported\_band
:   frequency band definition

**Definition**:

```
struct ieee80211_supported_band {
    struct ieee80211_channel *channels;
    struct ieee80211_rate *bitrates;
    enum nl80211_band band;
    int n_channels;
    int n_bitrates;
    struct ieee80211_sta_ht_cap ht_cap;
    struct ieee80211_sta_vht_cap vht_cap;
    struct ieee80211_sta_s1g_cap s1g_cap;
    struct ieee80211_edmg edmg_cap;
    u16 n_iftype_data;
    const struct ieee80211_sband_iftype_data __iftd *iftype_data;
};
```

**Members**

`channels`
:   Array of channels the hardware can operate with
    in this band.

`bitrates`
:   Array of bitrates the hardware can operate with
    in this band. Must be sorted to give a valid “supported
    rates” IE, i.e. CCK rates first, then OFDM.

`band`
:   the band this structure represents

`n_channels`
:   Number of channels in **channels**

`n_bitrates`
:   Number of bitrates in **bitrates**

`ht_cap`
:   HT capabilities in this band

`vht_cap`
:   VHT capabilities in this band

`s1g_cap`
:   S1G capabilities in this band (S1G band only, of course)

`edmg_cap`
:   EDMG capabilities in this band

`n_iftype_data`
:   number of iftype data entries

`iftype_data`
:   interface type data entries. Note that the bits in
    **types\_mask** inside this structure cannot overlap (i.e. only
    one occurrence of each type is allowed across all instances of
    iftype\_data).

**Description**

This structure describes a frequency band a wiphy
is able to operate in.

void wiphy\_read\_of\_freq\_limits(struct [wiphy](#c.wiphy_read_of_freq_limits "wiphy") \*wiphy)
:   read frequency limits from device tree

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   the wireless device to get extra limits for

**Description**

Some devices may have extra limitations specified in DT. This may be useful
for chipsets that normally support more bands but are limited due to board
design (e.g. by antennas or external power amplifier).

This function reads info from DT and uses it to *modify* channels (disable
unavailable ones). It’s usually a *bad* idea to use it in drivers with
shared channel data as DT limitations are device specific. You should make
sure to call it only if channels in wiphy are copied and can be modified
without affecting other devices.

As this function access device node it has to be called after set\_wiphy\_dev.
It also modifies channels so they have to be set first.
If using this helper, call it before [`wiphy_register()`](#c.wiphy_register "wiphy_register").

enum cfg80211\_signal\_type
:   signal type

**Constants**

`CFG80211_SIGNAL_TYPE_NONE`
:   no signal strength information available

`CFG80211_SIGNAL_TYPE_MBM`
:   signal strength in mBm (100\*dBm)

`CFG80211_SIGNAL_TYPE_UNSPEC`
:   signal strength, increasing from 0 through 100

enum wiphy\_params\_flags
:   set\_wiphy\_params bitfield values

**Constants**

`WIPHY_PARAM_RETRY_SHORT`
:   wiphy->retry\_short has changed

`WIPHY_PARAM_RETRY_LONG`
:   wiphy->retry\_long has changed

`WIPHY_PARAM_FRAG_THRESHOLD`
:   wiphy->frag\_threshold has changed

`WIPHY_PARAM_RTS_THRESHOLD`
:   wiphy->rts\_threshold has changed

`WIPHY_PARAM_COVERAGE_CLASS`
:   coverage class changed

`WIPHY_PARAM_DYN_ACK`
:   dynack has been enabled

`WIPHY_PARAM_TXQ_LIMIT`
:   TXQ packet limit has been changed

`WIPHY_PARAM_TXQ_MEMORY_LIMIT`
:   TXQ memory limit has been changed

`WIPHY_PARAM_TXQ_QUANTUM`
:   TXQ scheduler quantum

enum wiphy\_flags
:   wiphy capability flags

**Constants**

`WIPHY_FLAG_SUPPORTS_EXT_KEK_KCK`
:   The device supports bigger kek and kck keys

`WIPHY_FLAG_SUPPORTS_MLO`
:   This is a temporary flag gating the MLO APIs,
    in order to not have them reachable in normal drivers, until we have
    complete feature/interface combinations/etc. advertisement. No driver
    should set this flag for now.

`WIPHY_FLAG_SPLIT_SCAN_6GHZ`
:   if set to true, the scan request will be split
    into two, first for legacy bands and second for 6 GHz.

`WIPHY_FLAG_NETNS_OK`
:   if not set, do not allow changing the netns of this
    wiphy at all

`WIPHY_FLAG_PS_ON_BY_DEFAULT`
:   if set to true, powersave will be enabled
    by default -- this flag will be set depending on the kernel’s default
    on [`wiphy_new()`](#c.wiphy_new "wiphy_new"), but can be changed by the driver if it has a good
    reason to override the default

`WIPHY_FLAG_4ADDR_AP`
:   supports 4addr mode even on AP (with a single station
    on a VLAN interface). This flag also serves an extra purpose of
    supporting 4ADDR AP mode on devices which do not support AP/VLAN iftype.

`WIPHY_FLAG_4ADDR_STATION`
:   supports 4addr mode even as a station

`WIPHY_FLAG_CONTROL_PORT_PROTOCOL`
:   This device supports setting the
    control port protocol ethertype. The device also honours the
    control\_port\_no\_encrypt flag.

`WIPHY_FLAG_IBSS_RSN`
:   The device supports IBSS RSN.

`WIPHY_FLAG_DISABLE_WEXT`
:   disable wireless extensions for this device

`WIPHY_FLAG_MESH_AUTH`
:   The device supports mesh authentication by routing
    auth frames to userspace. See **NL80211\_MESH\_SETUP\_USERSPACE\_AUTH**.

`WIPHY_FLAG_SUPPORTS_EXT_KCK_32`
:   The device supports 32-byte KCK keys.

`WIPHY_FLAG_SUPPORTS_NSTR_NONPRIMARY`
:   support connection to non-primary link
    of an NSTR mobile AP MLD.

`WIPHY_FLAG_SUPPORTS_FW_ROAM`
:   The device supports roaming feature in the
    firmware.

`WIPHY_FLAG_AP_UAPSD`
:   The device supports uapsd on AP.

`WIPHY_FLAG_SUPPORTS_TDLS`
:   The device supports TDLS (802.11z) operation.

`WIPHY_FLAG_TDLS_EXTERNAL_SETUP`
:   The device does not handle TDLS (802.11z)
    link setup/discovery operations internally. Setup, discovery and
    teardown packets should be sent through the **NL80211\_CMD\_TDLS\_MGMT**
    command. When this flag is not set, **NL80211\_CMD\_TDLS\_OPER** should be
    used for asking the driver/firmware to perform a TDLS operation.

`WIPHY_FLAG_HAVE_AP_SME`
:   device integrates AP SME

`WIPHY_FLAG_REPORTS_OBSS`
:   the device will report beacons from other BSSes
    when there are virtual interfaces in AP mode by calling
    `cfg80211_report_obss_beacon()`.

`WIPHY_FLAG_AP_PROBE_RESP_OFFLOAD`
:   When operating as an AP, the device
    responds to probe-requests in hardware.

`WIPHY_FLAG_OFFCHAN_TX`
:   Device supports direct off-channel TX.

`WIPHY_FLAG_HAS_REMAIN_ON_CHANNEL`
:   Device supports remain-on-channel call.

`WIPHY_FLAG_SUPPORTS_5_10_MHZ`
:   Device supports 5 MHz and 10 MHz channels.

`WIPHY_FLAG_HAS_CHANNEL_SWITCH`
:   Device supports channel switch in
    beaconing mode (AP, IBSS, Mesh, ...).

`WIPHY_FLAG_NOTIFY_REGDOM_BY_DRIVER`
:   The device could handle reg notify for
    NL80211\_REGDOM\_SET\_BY\_DRIVER.

`WIPHY_FLAG_CHANNEL_CHANGE_ON_BEACON`
:   `reg_call_notifier()` is called if driver
    set this flag to update channels on beacon hints.

struct ieee80211\_iface\_limit
:   limit on certain interface types

**Definition**:

```
struct ieee80211_iface_limit {
    u16 max;
    u16 types;
};
```

**Members**

`max`
:   maximum number of interfaces of these types

`types`
:   interface types (bits)

struct ieee80211\_iface\_combination
:   possible interface combination

**Definition**:

```
struct ieee80211_iface_combination {
    const struct ieee80211_iface_limit *limits;
    u32 num_different_channels;
    u16 max_interfaces;
    u8 n_limits;
    bool beacon_int_infra_match;
    u8 radar_detect_widths;
    u8 radar_detect_regions;
    u32 beacon_int_min_gcd;
};
```

**Members**

`limits`
:   limits for the given interface types

`num_different_channels`
:   can use up to this many different channels

`max_interfaces`
:   maximum number of interfaces in total allowed in this group

`n_limits`
:   number of limitations

`beacon_int_infra_match`
:   In this combination, the beacon intervals between infrastructure
    and AP types must match. This is required only in special cases.

`radar_detect_widths`
:   bitmap of channel widths supported for radar detection

`radar_detect_regions`
:   bitmap of regions supported for radar detection

`beacon_int_min_gcd`
:   This interface combination supports different beacon intervals.

    = 0
    :   all beacon intervals for different interface must be same.

    > 0
    :   any beacon interval for the interface part of this combination AND
        GCD of all beacon intervals from beaconing interfaces of this
        combination must be greater or equal to this value.

**Description**

With this structure the driver can describe which interface
combinations it supports concurrently. When set in a `struct wiphy_radio`,
the combinations refer to combinations of interfaces currently active on
that radio.

**Examples**

1. Allow #STA <= 1, #AP <= 1, matching BI, channels = 1, 2 total:

   ```
   struct ieee80211_iface_limit limits1[] = {
           { .max = 1, .types = BIT(NL80211_IFTYPE_STATION), },
           { .max = 1, .types = BIT(NL80211_IFTYPE_AP), },
   };
   struct ieee80211_iface_combination combination1 = {
           .limits = limits1,
           .n_limits = ARRAY_SIZE(limits1),
           .max_interfaces = 2,
           .beacon_int_infra_match = true,
   };
   ```
2. Allow #{AP, P2P-GO} <= 8, channels = 1, 8 total:

   ```
   struct ieee80211_iface_limit limits2[] = {
           { .max = 8, .types = BIT(NL80211_IFTYPE_AP) |
                                BIT(NL80211_IFTYPE_P2P_GO), },
   };
   struct ieee80211_iface_combination combination2 = {
           .limits = limits2,
           .n_limits = ARRAY_SIZE(limits2),
           .max_interfaces = 8,
           .num_different_channels = 1,
   };
   ```
3. Allow #STA <= 1, #{P2P-client,P2P-GO} <= 3 on two channels, 4 total.

   This allows for an infrastructure connection and three P2P connections.

   ```
   struct ieee80211_iface_limit limits3[] = {
           { .max = 1, .types = BIT(NL80211_IFTYPE_STATION), },
           { .max = 3, .types = BIT(NL80211_IFTYPE_P2P_GO) |
                                BIT(NL80211_IFTYPE_P2P_CLIENT), },
   };
   struct ieee80211_iface_combination combination3 = {
           .limits = limits3,
           .n_limits = ARRAY_SIZE(limits3),
           .max_interfaces = 4,
           .num_different_channels = 2,
   };
   ```

struct wiphy
:   wireless hardware description

**Definition**:

```
struct wiphy {
    struct mutex mtx;
    u8 perm_addr[ETH_ALEN];
    u8 addr_mask[ETH_ALEN];
    struct mac_address *addresses;
    const struct ieee80211_txrx_stypes *mgmt_stypes;
    const struct ieee80211_iface_combination *iface_combinations;
    int n_iface_combinations;
    u16 software_iftypes;
    u16 n_addresses;
    u16 interface_modes;
    u16 max_acl_mac_addrs;
    u32 flags, regulatory_flags, features;
    u8 ext_features[DIV_ROUND_UP(NUM_NL80211_EXT_FEATURES, 8)];
    u32 ap_sme_capa;
    enum cfg80211_signal_type signal_type;
    int bss_priv_size;
    u8 max_scan_ssids;
    u8 max_sched_scan_reqs;
    u8 max_sched_scan_ssids;
    u8 max_match_sets;
    u16 max_scan_ie_len;
    u16 max_sched_scan_ie_len;
    u32 max_sched_scan_plans;
    u32 max_sched_scan_plan_interval;
    u32 max_sched_scan_plan_iterations;
    int n_cipher_suites;
    const u32 *cipher_suites;
    int n_akm_suites;
    const u32 *akm_suites;
    const struct wiphy_iftype_akm_suites *iftype_akm_suites;
    unsigned int num_iftype_akm_suites;
    u8 retry_short;
    u8 retry_long;
    u32 frag_threshold;
    u32 rts_threshold;
    u8 coverage_class;
    char fw_version[ETHTOOL_FWVERS_LEN];
    u32 hw_version;
#ifdef CONFIG_PM;
    const struct wiphy_wowlan_support *wowlan;
    struct cfg80211_wowlan *wowlan_config;
#endif;
    u16 max_remain_on_channel_duration;
    u8 max_num_pmkids;
    u32 available_antennas_tx;
    u32 available_antennas_rx;
    u32 probe_resp_offload;
    const u8 *extended_capabilities, *extended_capabilities_mask;
    u8 extended_capabilities_len;
    const struct wiphy_iftype_ext_capab *iftype_ext_capab;
    unsigned int num_iftype_ext_capab;
    const void *privid;
    struct ieee80211_supported_band *bands[NUM_NL80211_BANDS];
    void (*reg_notifier)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct regulatory_request *request);
    struct wiphy_radio_cfg *radio_cfg;
    const struct ieee80211_regdomain *regd;
    struct device dev;
    bool registered;
    struct dentry *debugfsdir;
    const struct ieee80211_ht_cap *ht_capa_mod_mask;
    const struct ieee80211_vht_cap *vht_capa_mod_mask;
    struct list_head wdev_list;
    possible_net_t _net;
#ifdef CONFIG_CFG80211_WEXT;
    const struct iw_handler_def *wext;
#endif;
    const struct wiphy_coalesce_support *coalesce;
    const struct wiphy_vendor_command *vendor_commands;
    const struct nl80211_vendor_cmd_info *vendor_events;
    int n_vendor_commands, n_vendor_events;
    u16 max_ap_assoc_sta;
    u8 max_num_csa_counters;
    u32 bss_param_support;
    u32 bss_select_support;
    u8 nan_supported_bands;
    struct wiphy_nan_capa nan_capa;
    u32 txq_limit;
    u32 txq_memory_limit;
    u32 txq_quantum;
    unsigned long tx_queue_len;
    u8 support_mbssid:1, support_only_he_mbssid:1;
    const struct cfg80211_pmsr_capabilities *pmsr_capa;
    struct {
        u64 peer, vif;
        u8 max_retry;
    } tid_config_support;
    u8 max_data_retry_count;
    const struct cfg80211_sar_capa *sar_capa;
    struct rfkill *rfkill;
    u8 mbssid_max_interfaces;
    u8 ema_max_profile_periodicity;
    u16 max_num_akm_suites;
    u16 hw_timestamp_max_peers;
    int n_radio;
    const struct wiphy_radio *radio;
    char priv[];
};
```

**Members**

`mtx`
:   mutex for the data (structures) of this device

`perm_addr`
:   permanent MAC address of this device

`addr_mask`
:   If the device supports multiple MAC addresses by masking,
    set this to a mask with variable bits set to 1, e.g. if the last
    four bits are variable then set it to 00-00-00-00-00-0f. The actual
    variable bits shall be determined by the interfaces added, with
    interfaces not matching the mask being rejected to be brought up.

`addresses`
:   If the device has more than one address, set this pointer
    to a list of addresses (6 bytes each). The first one will be used
    by default for perm\_addr. In this case, the mask should be set to
    all-zeroes. In this case it is assumed that the device can handle
    the same number of arbitrary MAC addresses.

`mgmt_stypes`
:   bitmasks of frame subtypes that can be subscribed to or
    transmitted through nl80211, points to an array indexed by interface
    type

`iface_combinations`
:   Valid interface combinations array, should not
    list single interface types.

`n_iface_combinations`
:   number of entries in **iface\_combinations** array.

`software_iftypes`
:   bitmask of software interface types, these are not
    subject to any restrictions since they are purely managed in SW.

`n_addresses`
:   number of addresses in **addresses**.

`interface_modes`
:   bitmask of interfaces types valid for this wiphy,
    must be set by driver

`max_acl_mac_addrs`
:   Maximum number of MAC addresses that the device
    supports for ACL.

`flags`
:   wiphy flags, see [`enum wiphy_flags`](#c.wiphy_flags "wiphy_flags")

`regulatory_flags`
:   wiphy regulatory flags, see
    `enum ieee80211_regulatory_flags`

`features`
:   features advertised to nl80211, see `enum nl80211_feature_flags`.

`ext_features`
:   extended features advertised to nl80211, see
    `enum nl80211_ext_feature_index`.

`ap_sme_capa`
:   AP SME capabilities, flags from `enum nl80211_ap_sme_features`.

`signal_type`
:   signal type reported in [`struct cfg80211_bss`](#c.cfg80211_bss "cfg80211_bss").

`bss_priv_size`
:   each BSS `struct has` private data allocated with it,
    this variable determines its size

`max_scan_ssids`
:   maximum number of SSIDs the device can scan for in
    any given scan

`max_sched_scan_reqs`
:   maximum number of scheduled scan requests that
    the device can run concurrently.

`max_sched_scan_ssids`
:   maximum number of SSIDs the device can scan
    for in any given scheduled scan

`max_match_sets`
:   maximum number of match sets the device can handle
    when performing a scheduled scan, 0 if filtering is not
    supported.

`max_scan_ie_len`
:   maximum length of user-controlled IEs device can
    add to probe request frames transmitted during a scan, must not
    include fixed IEs like supported rates

`max_sched_scan_ie_len`
:   same as max\_scan\_ie\_len, but for scheduled
    scans

`max_sched_scan_plans`
:   maximum number of scan plans (scan interval and number
    of iterations) for scheduled scan supported by the device.

`max_sched_scan_plan_interval`
:   maximum interval (in seconds) for a
    single scan plan supported by the device.

`max_sched_scan_plan_iterations`
:   maximum number of iterations for a single
    scan plan supported by the device.

`n_cipher_suites`
:   number of supported cipher suites

`cipher_suites`
:   supported cipher suites

`n_akm_suites`
:   number of supported AKM suites

`akm_suites`
:   supported AKM suites. These are the default AKMs supported if
    the supported AKMs not advertized for a specific interface type in
    iftype\_akm\_suites.

`iftype_akm_suites`
:   array of supported akm suites info per interface type.
    Note that the bits in **iftypes\_mask** inside this structure cannot
    overlap (i.e. only one occurrence of each type is allowed across all
    instances of iftype\_akm\_suites).

`num_iftype_akm_suites`
:   number of interface types for which supported akm
    suites are specified separately.

`retry_short`
:   Retry limit for short frames (dot11ShortRetryLimit)

`retry_long`
:   Retry limit for long frames (dot11LongRetryLimit)

`frag_threshold`
:   Fragmentation threshold (dot11FragmentationThreshold);
    -1 = fragmentation disabled, only odd values >= 256 used

`rts_threshold`
:   RTS threshold (dot11RTSThreshold); -1 = RTS/CTS disabled

`coverage_class`
:   current coverage class

`fw_version`
:   firmware version for ethtool reporting

`hw_version`
:   hardware version for ethtool reporting

`wowlan`
:   WoWLAN support information

`wowlan_config`
:   current WoWLAN configuration; this should usually not be
    used since access to it is necessarily racy, use the parameter passed
    to the `suspend()` operation instead.

`max_remain_on_channel_duration`
:   Maximum time a remain-on-channel operation
    may request, if implemented.

`max_num_pmkids`
:   maximum number of PMKIDs supported by device

`available_antennas_tx`
:   bitmap of antennas which are available to be
    configured as TX antennas. Antenna configuration commands will be
    rejected unless this or **available\_antennas\_rx** is set.

`available_antennas_rx`
:   bitmap of antennas which are available to be
    configured as RX antennas. Antenna configuration commands will be
    rejected unless this or **available\_antennas\_tx** is set.

`probe_resp_offload`
:   Bitmap of supported protocols for probe response offloading.
    See `enum nl80211_probe_resp_offload_support_attr`. Only valid
    when the wiphy flag **WIPHY\_FLAG\_AP\_PROBE\_RESP\_OFFLOAD** is set.

`extended_capabilities`
:   extended capabilities supported by the driver,
    additional capabilities might be supported by userspace; these are
    the 802.11 extended capabilities (“Extended Capabilities element”)
    and are in the same format as in the information element. See
    802.11-2012 8.4.2.29 for the defined fields. These are the default
    extended capabilities to be used if the capabilities are not specified
    for a specific interface type in iftype\_ext\_capab.

`extended_capabilities_mask`
:   mask of the valid values

`extended_capabilities_len`
:   length of the extended capabilities

`iftype_ext_capab`
:   array of extended capabilities per interface type

`num_iftype_ext_capab`
:   number of interface types for which extended
    capabilities are specified separately.

`privid`
:   a pointer that drivers can use to identify if an arbitrary
    wiphy is theirs, e.g. in global notifiers

`bands`
:   information about bands/channels supported by this device

`reg_notifier`
:   the driver’s regulatory notification callback,
    note that if your driver uses [`wiphy_apply_custom_regulatory()`](#c.wiphy_apply_custom_regulatory "wiphy_apply_custom_regulatory")
    the reg\_notifier’s request can be passed as NULL

`radio_cfg`
:   configuration of radios belonging to a muli-radio wiphy. This
    `struct contains` a list of all radio specific attributes and should be
    used only for multi-radio wiphy.

`regd`
:   the driver’s regulatory domain, if one was requested via
    the [`regulatory_hint()`](#c.regulatory_hint "regulatory_hint") API. This can be used by the driver
    on the `reg_notifier()` if it chooses to ignore future
    regulatory domain changes caused by other drivers.

`dev`
:   (virtual) [`struct device`](../infrastructure.html#c.device "device") for this wiphy. The item in
    /sys/class/ieee80211/ points to this. You need use [`set_wiphy_dev()`](#c.set_wiphy_dev "set_wiphy_dev")
    (see below).

`registered`
:   protects ->resume and ->suspend sysfs callbacks against
    unregister hardware

`debugfsdir`
:   debugfs directory used for this wiphy (ieee80211/<wiphyname>).
    It will be renamed automatically on wiphy renames

`ht_capa_mod_mask`
:   Specify what ht\_cap values can be over-ridden.
    If null, then none can be over-ridden.

`vht_capa_mod_mask`
:   Specify what VHT capabilities can be over-ridden.
    If null, then none can be over-ridden.

`wdev_list`
:   the list of associated (virtual) interfaces; this list must
    not be modified by the driver, but can be read with RTNL/RCU protection.

`_net`
:   the network namespace this wiphy currently lives in

`wext`
:   wireless extension handlers

`coalesce`
:   packet coalescing support information

`vendor_commands`
:   array of vendor commands supported by the hardware

`vendor_events`
:   array of vendor events supported by the hardware

`n_vendor_commands`
:   number of vendor commands

`n_vendor_events`
:   number of vendor events

`max_ap_assoc_sta`
:   maximum number of associated stations supported in AP mode
    (including P2P GO) or 0 to indicate no such limit is advertised. The
    driver is allowed to advertise a theoretical limit that it can reach in
    some cases, but may not always reach.

`max_num_csa_counters`
:   Number of supported csa\_counters in beacons
    and probe responses. This value should be set if the driver
    wishes to limit the number of csa counters. Default (0) means
    infinite.

`bss_param_support`
:   bitmask indicating which bss\_parameters as defined in
    [`struct bss_parameters`](#c.bss_parameters "bss_parameters") the driver can actually handle in the
    .`change_bss()` callback. The bit positions are defined in `enum
    wiphy_bss_param_flags`.

`bss_select_support`
:   bitmask indicating the BSS selection criteria supported
    by the driver in the .`connect()` callback. The bit position maps to the
    attribute indices defined in `enum nl80211_bss_select_attr`.

`nan_supported_bands`
:   bands supported by the device in NAN mode, a
    bitmap of `enum nl80211_band` values. For instance, for
    NL80211\_BAND\_2GHZ, bit 0 would be set
    (i.e. BIT(NL80211\_BAND\_2GHZ)).

`nan_capa`
:   NAN capabilities

`txq_limit`
:   configuration of internal TX queue frame limit

`txq_memory_limit`
:   configuration internal TX queue memory limit

`txq_quantum`
:   configuration of internal TX queue scheduler quantum

`tx_queue_len`
:   allow setting transmit queue len for drivers not using
    wake\_tx\_queue

`support_mbssid`
:   can HW support association with nontransmitted AP

`support_only_he_mbssid`
:   don’t parse MBSSID elements if it is not
    HE AP, in order to avoid compatibility issues.
    **support\_mbssid** must be set for this to have any effect.

`pmsr_capa`
:   peer measurement capabilities

`tid_config_support`
:   describes the per-TID config support that the
    device has

`tid_config_support.peer`
:   bitmap of attributes (configurations)
    supported by the driver for each peer

`tid_config_support.vif`
:   bitmap of attributes (configurations)
    supported by the driver for each vif

`tid_config_support.max_retry`
:   maximum supported retry count for
    long/short retry configuration

`max_data_retry_count`
:   maximum supported per TID retry count for
    configuration through the `NL80211_TID_CONFIG_ATTR_RETRY_SHORT` and
    `NL80211_TID_CONFIG_ATTR_RETRY_LONG` attributes

`sar_capa`
:   SAR control capabilities

`rfkill`
:   a pointer to the rfkill structure

`mbssid_max_interfaces`
:   maximum number of interfaces supported by the driver
    in a multiple BSSID set. This field must be set to a non-zero value
    by the driver to advertise MBSSID support.

`ema_max_profile_periodicity`
:   maximum profile periodicity supported by
    the driver. Setting this field to a non-zero value indicates that the
    driver supports enhanced multi-BSSID advertisements (EMA AP).

`max_num_akm_suites`
:   maximum number of AKM suites allowed for
    configuration through `NL80211_CMD_CONNECT`, `NL80211_CMD_ASSOCIATE` and
    `NL80211_CMD_START_AP`. Set to NL80211\_MAX\_NR\_AKM\_SUITES if not set by
    driver. If set by driver minimum allowed value is
    NL80211\_MAX\_NR\_AKM\_SUITES in order to avoid compatibility issues with
    legacy userspace and maximum allowed value is
    CFG80211\_MAX\_NUM\_AKM\_SUITES.

`hw_timestamp_max_peers`
:   maximum number of peers that the driver supports
    enabling HW timestamping for concurrently. Setting this field to a
    non-zero value indicates that the driver supports HW timestamping.
    A value of `CFG80211_HW_TIMESTAMP_ALL_PEERS` indicates the driver
    supports enabling HW timestamping for all peers (i.e. no need to
    specify a mac address).

`n_radio`
:   number of radios

`radio`
:   radios belonging to this wiphy

`priv`
:   driver private data (sized according to [`wiphy_new()`](#c.wiphy_new "wiphy_new") parameter)

void \*wiphy\_priv(struct [wiphy](#c.wiphy_priv "wiphy") \*wiphy)
:   return priv from wiphy

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   the wiphy whose priv pointer to return

**Return**

The priv of **wiphy**.

struct [wiphy](#c.wiphy "wiphy") \*priv\_to\_wiphy(void \*priv)
:   return the wiphy containing the priv

**Parameters**

`void *priv`
:   a pointer previously returned by wiphy\_priv

**Return**

The wiphy of **priv**.

void set\_wiphy\_dev(struct [wiphy](#c.set_wiphy_dev "wiphy") \*wiphy, struct [device](../infrastructure.html#c.device "device") \*dev)
:   set device pointer for wiphy

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   The wiphy whose device to bind

`struct device *dev`
:   The device to parent it to

struct [device](../infrastructure.html#c.device "device") \*wiphy\_dev(struct [wiphy](#c.wiphy_dev "wiphy") \*wiphy)
:   get wiphy dev pointer

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   The wiphy whose device `struct to` look up

**Return**

The dev of **wiphy**.

const char \*wiphy\_name(const struct [wiphy](#c.wiphy_name "wiphy") \*wiphy)
:   get wiphy name

**Parameters**

`const struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   The wiphy whose name to return

**Return**

The name of **wiphy**.

struct [wiphy](#c.wiphy "wiphy") \*wiphy\_new(const struct [cfg80211\_ops](#c.cfg80211_ops "cfg80211_ops") \*ops, int sizeof\_priv)
:   create a new wiphy for use with cfg80211

**Parameters**

`const struct cfg80211_ops *ops`
:   The configuration operations for this device

`int sizeof_priv`
:   The size of the private area to allocate

**Description**

Create a new wiphy and associate the given operations with it.
**sizeof\_priv** bytes are allocated for private use.

**Return**

A pointer to the new wiphy. This pointer must be
assigned to each netdev’s ieee80211\_ptr for proper operation.

int wiphy\_register(struct [wiphy](#c.wiphy_register "wiphy") \*wiphy)
:   register a wiphy with cfg80211

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   The wiphy to register.

**Return**

A non-negative wiphy index or a negative error code.

void wiphy\_unregister(struct [wiphy](#c.wiphy_unregister "wiphy") \*wiphy)
:   deregister a wiphy from cfg80211

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   The wiphy to unregister.

**Description**

After this call, no more requests can be made with this priv
pointer, but the call may sleep to wait for an outstanding
request that is being handled.

void wiphy\_free(struct [wiphy](#c.wiphy_free "wiphy") \*wiphy)
:   free wiphy

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   The wiphy to free

struct wireless\_dev
:   wireless device state

**Definition**:

```
struct wireless_dev {
    struct wiphy *wiphy;
    enum nl80211_iftype iftype;
    struct list_head list;
    struct net_device *netdev;
    u32 identifier;
    struct list_head mgmt_registrations;
    u8 mgmt_registrations_need_update:1;
    bool use_4addr, is_running, registered, registering;
    u8 address[ETH_ALEN];
    struct cfg80211_conn *conn;
    struct cfg80211_cached_keys *connect_keys;
    enum ieee80211_bss_type conn_bss_type;
    u32 conn_owner_nlportid;
    struct work_struct disconnect_wk;
    u8 disconnect_bssid[ETH_ALEN];
    struct list_head event_list;
    spinlock_t event_lock;
    u8 connected:1;
    bool ps;
    int ps_timeout;
    u32 unexpected_nlportid;
    u32 owner_nlportid;
    bool nl_owner_dead;
#ifdef CONFIG_CFG80211_WEXT;
    struct {
        struct cfg80211_ibss_params ibss;
        struct cfg80211_connect_params connect;
        struct cfg80211_cached_keys *keys;
        const u8 *ie;
        size_t ie_len;
        u8 bssid[ETH_ALEN];
        u8 prev_bssid[ETH_ALEN];
        u8 ssid[IEEE80211_MAX_SSID_LEN];
        s8 default_key, default_mgmt_key;
        bool prev_bssid_valid;
    } wext;
#endif;
    struct wiphy_work cqm_rssi_work;
    struct cfg80211_cqm_config *cqm_config;
    struct list_head pmsr_list;
    spinlock_t pmsr_lock;
    struct work_struct pmsr_free_wk;
    unsigned long unprot_beacon_reported;
    union {
        struct {
            u8 connected_addr[ETH_ALEN];
            u8 ssid[IEEE80211_MAX_SSID_LEN];
            u8 ssid_len;
        } client;
        struct {
            int beacon_interval;
            struct cfg80211_chan_def preset_chandef;
            struct cfg80211_chan_def chandef;
            u8 id[IEEE80211_MAX_MESH_ID_LEN];
            u8 id_len, id_up_len;
        } mesh;
        struct {
            struct cfg80211_chan_def preset_chandef;
            u8 ssid[IEEE80211_MAX_SSID_LEN];
            u8 ssid_len;
        } ap;
        struct {
            struct cfg80211_internal_bss *current_bss;
            struct cfg80211_chan_def chandef;
            int beacon_interval;
            u8 ssid[IEEE80211_MAX_SSID_LEN];
            u8 ssid_len;
        } ibss;
        struct {
            struct cfg80211_chan_def chandef;
        } ocb;
        struct {
            u8 cluster_id[ETH_ALEN];
            u8 n_channels;
            struct cfg80211_chan_def *chandefs;
            bool sched_update_pending;
        } nan;
    } u;
    struct {
        u8 addr[ETH_ALEN];
        union {
            struct {
                unsigned int beacon_interval;
                struct cfg80211_chan_def chandef;
            } ap;
            struct {
                struct cfg80211_internal_bss *current_bss;
            } client;
        };
        bool cac_started;
        unsigned long cac_start_time;
        unsigned int cac_time_ms;
    } links[IEEE80211_MLD_MAX_NUM_LINKS];
    u16 valid_links;
    u32 radio_mask;
};
```

**Members**

`wiphy`
:   pointer to hardware description

`iftype`
:   interface type

`list`
:   (private) Used to collect the interfaces

`netdev`
:   (private) Used to reference back to the netdev, may be `NULL`

`identifier`
:   (private) Identifier used in nl80211 to identify this
    wireless device if it has no netdev

`mgmt_registrations`
:   list of registrations for management frames

`mgmt_registrations_need_update`
:   mgmt registrations were updated,
    need to propagate the update to the driver

`use_4addr`
:   indicates 4addr mode is used on this interface, must be
    set by driver (if supported) on add\_interface BEFORE registering the
    netdev and may otherwise be used by driver read-only, will be update
    by cfg80211 on change\_interface

`is_running`
:   true if this is a non-netdev device that has been started, e.g.
    the P2P Device.

`registered`
:   is this wdev already registered with cfg80211

`registering`
:   indicates we’re doing registration under wiphy lock
    for the notifier

`address`
:   The address for this device, valid only if **netdev** is `NULL`

`conn`
:   (private) cfg80211 software SME connection state machine data

`connect_keys`
:   (private) keys to set after connection is established

`conn_bss_type`
:   connecting/connected BSS type

`conn_owner_nlportid`
:   (private) connection owner socket port ID

`disconnect_wk`
:   (private) auto-disconnect work

`disconnect_bssid`
:   (private) the BSSID to use for auto-disconnect

`event_list`
:   (private) list for internal event processing

`event_lock`
:   (private) lock for event list

`connected`
:   indicates if connected or not (STA mode)

`ps`
:   powersave mode is enabled

`ps_timeout`
:   dynamic powersave timeout

`unexpected_nlportid`
:   (private) netlink port ID of application
    registered for unexpected frames (AP mode or NAN\_DATA mode)

`owner_nlportid`
:   (private) owner socket port ID

`nl_owner_dead`
:   (private) owner socket went away

`wext`
:   (private) Used by the internal wireless extensions compat code

`wext.ibss`
:   (private) IBSS data part of wext handling

`wext.connect`
:   (private) connection handling data

`wext.keys`
:   (private) (WEP) key data

`wext.ie`
:   (private) extra elements for association

`wext.ie_len`
:   (private) length of extra elements

`wext.bssid`
:   (private) selected network BSSID

`wext.prev_bssid`
:   (private) previous BSSID for reassociation

`wext.ssid`
:   (private) selected network SSID

`wext.default_key`
:   (private) selected default key index

`wext.default_mgmt_key`
:   (private) selected default management key index

`wext.prev_bssid_valid`
:   (private) previous BSSID validity

`cqm_rssi_work`
:   (private) CQM RSSI reporting work

`cqm_config`
:   (private) nl80211 RSSI monitor state

`pmsr_list`
:   (private) peer measurement requests

`pmsr_lock`
:   (private) peer measurements requests/results lock

`pmsr_free_wk`
:   (private) peer measurements cleanup work

`unprot_beacon_reported`
:   (private) timestamp of last
    unprotected beacon report

`u`
:   `union containing` data specific to **iftype**

`links`
:   array of `IEEE80211_MLD_MAX_NUM_LINKS` elements containing **addr**
    **ap** and **client** for each link

`{unnamed_union}`
:   anonymous

`links.cac_started`
:   true if DFS channel availability check has been
    started

`links.cac_start_time`
:   timestamp (jiffies) when the dfs state was
    entered.

`links.cac_time_ms`
:   CAC time in ms

`valid_links`
:   bitmap describing what elements of **links** are valid

`radio_mask`
:   Bitmask of radios that this interface is allowed to operate on.

**Description**

For netdevs, this structure must be allocated by the driver
that uses the ieee80211\_ptr field in [`struct net_device`](../../networking/kapi.html#c.net_device "net_device") (this
is intentional so it can be allocated along with the netdev.)
It need not be registered then as netdev registration will
be intercepted by cfg80211 to see the new wireless device,
however, drivers must lock the wiphy before registering or
unregistering netdevs if they pre-create any netdevs (in ops
called from cfg80211, the wiphy is already locked.)

For non-netdev uses, it must also be allocated by the driver
in response to the cfg80211 callbacks that require it, as
there’s no netdev registration in that case it may not be
allocated outside of callback operations that return it.

void \*wdev\_priv(struct [wireless\_dev](#c.wireless_dev "wireless_dev") \*wdev)
:   return wiphy priv from wireless\_dev

**Parameters**

`struct wireless_dev *wdev`
:   The wireless device whose wiphy’s priv pointer to return

**Return**

The wiphy priv of **wdev**.

int cfg80211\_check\_combinations(struct [wiphy](#c.cfg80211_check_combinations "wiphy") \*wiphy, struct iface\_combination\_params \*params)
:   check interface combinations

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   the wiphy

`struct iface_combination_params *params`
:   the interface combinations parameter

**Description**

This function can be called by the driver to check whether a
combination of interfaces and their types are allowed according to
the interface combinations.

**Return**

0 if combinations are allowed. Non-zero on error.

## Actions and configuration

Each wireless device and each virtual interface offer a set of configuration
operations and other actions that are invoked by userspace. Each of these
actions is described in the operations structure, and the parameters these
operations use are described separately.

Additionally, some operations are asynchronous and expect to get status
information via some functions that drivers need to call.

Scanning and BSS list handling with its associated functionality is described
in a separate chapter.

struct vif\_params
:   describes virtual interface parameters

**Definition**:

```
struct vif_params {
    u32 flags;
    int use_4addr;
    u8 macaddr[ETH_ALEN];
    const u8 *vht_mumimo_groups;
    const u8 *vht_mumimo_follow_addr;
};
```

**Members**

`flags`
:   monitor interface flags, unchanged if 0, otherwise
    `MONITOR_FLAG_CHANGED` will be set

`use_4addr`
:   use 4-address frames

`macaddr`
:   address to use for this virtual interface.
    If this parameter is set to zero address the driver may
    determine the address as needed.
    This feature is only fully supported by drivers that enable the
    `NL80211_FEATURE_MAC_ON_CREATE` flag. Others may support creating
    \* only p2p devices with specified MAC.

`vht_mumimo_groups`
:   MU-MIMO groupID, used for monitoring MU-MIMO packets
    belonging to that MU-MIMO groupID; `NULL` if not changed

`vht_mumimo_follow_addr`
:   MU-MIMO follow address, used for monitoring
    MU-MIMO packets going to the specified station; `NULL` if not changed

struct key\_params
:   key information

**Definition**:

```
struct key_params {
    const u8 *key;
    const u8 *seq;
    int key_len;
    int seq_len;
    u16 vlan_id;
    u32 cipher;
    enum nl80211_key_mode mode;
};
```

**Members**

`key`
:   key material

`seq`
:   sequence counter (IV/PN), must be in little endian,
    length given by **seq\_len**.

`key_len`
:   length of key material

`seq_len`
:   length of **seq**.

`vlan_id`
:   vlan\_id for VLAN group key (if nonzero)

`cipher`
:   cipher suite selector

`mode`
:   key install mode (RX\_TX, NO\_TX or SET\_TX)

**Description**

Information about a key

enum survey\_info\_flags
:   survey information flags

**Constants**

`SURVEY_INFO_NOISE_DBM`
:   noise (in dBm) was filled in

`SURVEY_INFO_IN_USE`
:   channel is currently being used

`SURVEY_INFO_TIME`
:   active time (in ms) was filled in

`SURVEY_INFO_TIME_BUSY`
:   busy time was filled in

`SURVEY_INFO_TIME_EXT_BUSY`
:   extension channel busy time was filled in

`SURVEY_INFO_TIME_RX`
:   receive time was filled in

`SURVEY_INFO_TIME_TX`
:   transmit time was filled in

`SURVEY_INFO_TIME_SCAN`
:   scan time was filled in

`SURVEY_INFO_TIME_BSS_RX`
:   local BSS receive time was filled in

**Description**

Used by the driver to indicate which info in [`struct survey_info`](#c.survey_info "survey_info")
it has filled in during the `get_survey()`.

struct survey\_info
:   channel survey response

**Definition**:

```
struct survey_info {
    struct ieee80211_channel *channel;
    u64 time;
    u64 time_busy;
    u64 time_ext_busy;
    u64 time_rx;
    u64 time_tx;
    u64 time_scan;
    u64 time_bss_rx;
    u32 filled;
    s8 noise;
};
```

**Members**

`channel`
:   the channel this survey record reports, may be `NULL` for a single
    record to report global statistics

`time`
:   amount of time in ms the radio was turn on (on the channel)

`time_busy`
:   amount of time the primary channel was sensed busy

`time_ext_busy`
:   amount of time the extension channel was sensed busy

`time_rx`
:   amount of time the radio spent receiving data

`time_tx`
:   amount of time the radio spent transmitting data

`time_scan`
:   amount of time the radio spent for scanning

`time_bss_rx`
:   amount of time the radio spent receiving data on a local BSS

`filled`
:   bitflag of flags from [`enum survey_info_flags`](#c.survey_info_flags "survey_info_flags")

`noise`
:   channel noise in dBm. This and all following fields are
    optional

**Description**

Used by `dump_survey()` to report back per-channel survey information.

This structure can later be expanded with things like
channel duty cycle etc.

struct cfg80211\_crypto\_settings
:   Crypto settings

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_crypto_settings {
    u32 wpa_versions;
    u32 cipher_group;
    int n_ciphers_pairwise;
    u32 ciphers_pairwise[NL80211_MAX_NR_CIPHER_SUITES];
    int n_akm_suites;
    u32 akm_suites[CFG80211_MAX_NUM_AKM_SUITES];
    bool control_port;
    __be16 control_port_ethertype;
    bool control_port_no_encrypt;
    bool control_port_over_nl80211;
    bool control_port_no_preauth;
    const u8 *psk;
    const u8 *sae_pwd;
    u8 sae_pwd_len;
    enum nl80211_sae_pwe_mechanism sae_pwe;
};
```

**Members**

`wpa_versions`
:   indicates which, if any, WPA versions are enabled
    (from `enum nl80211_wpa_versions`)

`cipher_group`
:   group key cipher suite (or 0 if unset)

`n_ciphers_pairwise`
:   number of AP supported unicast ciphers

`ciphers_pairwise`
:   unicast key cipher suites

`n_akm_suites`
:   number of AKM suites

`akm_suites`
:   AKM suites

`control_port`
:   Whether user space controls IEEE 802.1X port, i.e.,
    sets/clears `NL80211_STA_FLAG_AUTHORIZED`. If true, the driver is
    required to assume that the port is unauthorized until authorized by
    user space. Otherwise, port is marked authorized by default.

`control_port_ethertype`
:   the control port protocol that should be
    allowed through even on unauthorized ports

`control_port_no_encrypt`
:   TRUE to prevent encryption of control port
    protocol frames.

`control_port_over_nl80211`
:   TRUE if userspace expects to exchange control
    port frames over NL80211 instead of the network interface.

`control_port_no_preauth`
:   disables pre-auth rx over the nl80211 control
    port for mac80211

`psk`
:   PSK (for devices supporting 4-way-handshake offload)

`sae_pwd`
:   password for SAE authentication (for devices supporting SAE
    offload)

`sae_pwd_len`
:   length of SAE password (for devices supporting SAE offload)

`sae_pwe`
:   The mechanisms allowed for SAE PWE derivation:

**Description**

> NL80211\_SAE\_PWE\_UNSPECIFIED
> :   Not-specified, used to indicate userspace did not specify any
>     preference. The driver should follow its internal policy in
>     such a scenario.
>
> NL80211\_SAE\_PWE\_HUNT\_AND\_PECK
> :   Allow hunting-and-pecking loop only
>
> NL80211\_SAE\_PWE\_HASH\_TO\_ELEMENT
> :   Allow hash-to-element only
>
> NL80211\_SAE\_PWE\_BOTH
> :   Allow either hunting-and-pecking loop or hash-to-element

struct cfg80211\_beacon\_data
:   beacon data

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_beacon_data {
    unsigned int link_id;
    const u8 *head, *tail;
    const u8 *beacon_ies;
    const u8 *proberesp_ies;
    const u8 *assocresp_ies;
    const u8 *probe_resp;
    const u8 *lci;
    const u8 *civicloc;
    struct cfg80211_mbssid_elems *mbssid_ies;
    struct cfg80211_rnr_elems *rnr_ies;
    s8 ftm_responder;
    size_t head_len, tail_len;
    size_t beacon_ies_len;
    size_t proberesp_ies_len;
    size_t assocresp_ies_len;
    size_t probe_resp_len;
    size_t lci_len;
    size_t civicloc_len;
    struct cfg80211_he_bss_color he_bss_color;
    bool he_bss_color_valid;
};
```

**Members**

`link_id`
:   the link ID for the AP MLD link sending this beacon

`head`
:   head portion of beacon (before TIM IE)
    or `NULL` if not changed

`tail`
:   tail portion of beacon (after TIM IE)
    or `NULL` if not changed

`beacon_ies`
:   extra information element(s) to add into Beacon frames or `NULL`

`proberesp_ies`
:   extra information element(s) to add into Probe Response
    frames or `NULL`

`assocresp_ies`
:   extra information element(s) to add into (Re)Association
    Response frames or `NULL`

`probe_resp`
:   probe response template (AP mode only)

`lci`
:   Measurement Report element content, starting with Measurement Token
    (measurement type 8)

`civicloc`
:   Measurement Report element content, starting with Measurement
    Token (measurement type 11)

`mbssid_ies`
:   multiple BSSID elements

`rnr_ies`
:   reduced neighbor report elements

`ftm_responder`
:   enable FTM responder functionality; -1 for no change
    (which also implies no change in LCI/civic location data)

`head_len`
:   length of **head**

`tail_len`
:   length of **tail**

`beacon_ies_len`
:   length of beacon\_ies in octets

`proberesp_ies_len`
:   length of proberesp\_ies in octets

`assocresp_ies_len`
:   length of assocresp\_ies in octets

`probe_resp_len`
:   length of probe response template (**probe\_resp**)

`lci_len`
:   LCI data length

`civicloc_len`
:   Civic location data length

`he_bss_color`
:   BSS Color settings

`he_bss_color_valid`
:   indicates whether bss color
    attribute is present in beacon data or not.

struct cfg80211\_ap\_settings
:   AP configuration

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_ap_settings {
    struct cfg80211_chan_def chandef;
    struct cfg80211_beacon_data beacon;
    int beacon_interval, dtim_period;
    const u8 *ssid;
    size_t ssid_len;
    enum nl80211_hidden_ssid hidden_ssid;
    struct cfg80211_crypto_settings crypto;
    bool privacy;
    enum nl80211_auth_type auth_type;
    int inactivity_timeout;
    u8 p2p_ctwindow;
    bool p2p_opp_ps;
    const struct cfg80211_acl_data *acl;
    bool pbss;
    struct cfg80211_bitrate_mask beacon_rate;
    const struct ieee80211_ht_cap *ht_cap;
    const struct ieee80211_vht_cap *vht_cap;
    const struct ieee80211_he_cap_elem *he_cap;
    const struct ieee80211_he_operation *he_oper;
    const struct ieee80211_eht_cap_elem *eht_cap;
    const struct ieee80211_eht_operation *eht_oper;
    const struct ieee80211_uhr_operation *uhr_oper;
    bool ht_required, vht_required, he_required, sae_h2e_required;
    bool twt_responder;
    u32 flags;
    struct ieee80211_he_obss_pd he_obss_pd;
    struct cfg80211_fils_discovery fils_discovery;
    struct cfg80211_unsol_bcast_probe_resp unsol_bcast_probe_resp;
    struct cfg80211_mbssid_config mbssid_config;
    u8 s1g_long_beacon_period;
    struct cfg80211_s1g_short_beacon s1g_short_beacon;
};
```

**Members**

`chandef`
:   defines the channel to use

`beacon`
:   beacon data

`beacon_interval`
:   beacon interval

`dtim_period`
:   DTIM period

`ssid`
:   SSID to be used in the BSS (note: may be `NULL` if not provided from
    user space)

`ssid_len`
:   length of **ssid**

`hidden_ssid`
:   whether to hide the SSID in Beacon/Probe Response frames

`crypto`
:   crypto settings

`privacy`
:   the BSS uses privacy

`auth_type`
:   Authentication type (algorithm)

`inactivity_timeout`
:   time in seconds to determine station’s inactivity.

`p2p_ctwindow`
:   P2P CT Window

`p2p_opp_ps`
:   P2P opportunistic PS

`acl`
:   ACL configuration used by the drivers which has support for
    MAC address based access control

`pbss`
:   If set, start as a PCP instead of AP. Relevant for DMG
    networks.

`beacon_rate`
:   bitrate to be used for beacons

`ht_cap`
:   HT capabilities (or `NULL` if HT isn’t enabled)

`vht_cap`
:   VHT capabilities (or `NULL` if VHT isn’t enabled)

`he_cap`
:   HE capabilities (or `NULL` if HE isn’t enabled)

`he_oper`
:   HE operation IE (or `NULL` if HE isn’t enabled)

`eht_cap`
:   EHT capabilities (or `NULL` if EHT isn’t enabled)

`eht_oper`
:   EHT operation IE (or `NULL` if EHT isn’t enabled)

`uhr_oper`
:   UHR operation (or `NULL` if UHR isn’t enabled)

`ht_required`
:   stations must support HT

`vht_required`
:   stations must support VHT

`he_required`
:   stations must support HE

`sae_h2e_required`
:   stations must support direct H2E technique in SAE

`twt_responder`
:   Enable Target Wait Time

`flags`
:   flags, as defined in `enum nl80211_ap_settings_flags`

`he_obss_pd`
:   OBSS Packet Detection settings

`fils_discovery`
:   FILS discovery transmission parameters

`unsol_bcast_probe_resp`
:   Unsolicited broadcast probe response parameters

`mbssid_config`
:   AP settings for multiple bssid

`s1g_long_beacon_period`
:   S1G long beacon period

`s1g_short_beacon`
:   S1G short beacon data

**Description**

Used to configure an AP interface.

struct station\_parameters
:   station parameters

**Definition**:

```
struct station_parameters {
    struct net_device *vlan;
    u32 sta_flags_mask, sta_flags_set;
    u32 sta_modify_mask;
    int listen_interval;
    u16 aid;
    u16 vlan_id;
    u16 peer_aid;
    u8 plink_action;
    u8 plink_state;
    u8 uapsd_queues;
    u8 max_sp;
    enum nl80211_mesh_power_mode local_pm;
    u16 capability;
    const u8 *ext_capab;
    u8 ext_capab_len;
    const u8 *supported_channels;
    u8 supported_channels_len;
    const u8 *supported_oper_classes;
    u8 supported_oper_classes_len;
    int support_p2p_ps;
    u16 airtime_weight;
    bool eml_cap_present;
    u16 eml_cap;
    struct link_station_parameters link_sta_params;
    bool epp_peer;
    const u8 *nmi_mac;
};
```

**Members**

`vlan`
:   vlan interface station should belong to

`sta_flags_mask`
:   station flags that changed
    (bitmask of BIT(`NL80211_STA_FLAG_`...))

`sta_flags_set`
:   station flags values
    (bitmask of BIT(`NL80211_STA_FLAG_`...))

`sta_modify_mask`
:   bitmap indicating which parameters changed
    (for those that don’t have a natural “no change” value),
    see `enum station_parameters_apply_mask`

`listen_interval`
:   listen interval or -1 for no change

`aid`
:   AID or zero for no change

`vlan_id`
:   VLAN ID for station (if nonzero)

`peer_aid`
:   mesh peer AID or zero for no change

`plink_action`
:   plink action to take

`plink_state`
:   set the peer link state for a station

`uapsd_queues`
:   bitmap of queues configured for uapsd. same format
    as the AC bitmap in the QoS info field

`max_sp`
:   max Service Period. same format as the MAX\_SP in the
    QoS info field (but already shifted down)

`local_pm`
:   local link-specific mesh power save mode (no change when set
    to unknown)

`capability`
:   station capability

`ext_capab`
:   extended capabilities of the station

`ext_capab_len`
:   number of extended capabilities

`supported_channels`
:   supported channels in IEEE 802.11 format

`supported_channels_len`
:   number of supported channels

`supported_oper_classes`
:   supported oper classes in IEEE 802.11 format

`supported_oper_classes_len`
:   number of supported operating classes

`support_p2p_ps`
:   information if station supports P2P PS mechanism

`airtime_weight`
:   airtime scheduler weight for this station

`eml_cap_present`
:   Specifies if EML capabilities field (**eml\_cap**) is
    present/updated

`eml_cap`
:   EML capabilities of this station

`link_sta_params`
:   link related params.

`epp_peer`
:   EPP peer indication

`nmi_mac`
:   MAC address of the NMI station of the NAN peer

**Description**

Used to change and create a new station.

enum rate\_info\_flags
:   bitrate info flags

**Constants**

`RATE_INFO_FLAGS_MCS`
:   mcs field filled with HT MCS

`RATE_INFO_FLAGS_VHT_MCS`
:   mcs field filled with VHT MCS

`RATE_INFO_FLAGS_SHORT_GI`
:   400ns guard interval

`RATE_INFO_FLAGS_DMG`
:   60GHz MCS

`RATE_INFO_FLAGS_HE_MCS`
:   HE MCS information

`RATE_INFO_FLAGS_EDMG`
:   60GHz MCS in EDMG mode

`RATE_INFO_FLAGS_EXTENDED_SC_DMG`
:   60GHz extended SC MCS

`RATE_INFO_FLAGS_EHT_MCS`
:   EHT MCS information

`RATE_INFO_FLAGS_S1G_MCS`
:   MCS field filled with S1G MCS

`RATE_INFO_FLAGS_UHR_MCS`
:   UHR MCS information

`RATE_INFO_FLAGS_UHR_ELR_MCS`
:   UHR ELR MCS was used
    (set together with **RATE\_INFO\_FLAGS\_UHR\_MCS**)

`RATE_INFO_FLAGS_UHR_IM`
:   UHR Interference Mitigation
    was used

**Description**

Used by the driver to indicate the specific rate transmission
type for 802.11n transmissions.

struct rate\_info
:   bitrate information

**Definition**:

```
struct rate_info {
    u16 flags;
    u16 legacy;
    u8 mcs;
    u8 nss;
    u8 bw;
    u8 he_gi;
    u8 he_dcm;
    u8 he_ru_alloc;
    u8 n_bonded_ch;
    u8 eht_gi;
    u8 eht_ru_alloc;
};
```

**Members**

`flags`
:   bitflag of flags from [`enum rate_info_flags`](#c.rate_info_flags "rate_info_flags")

`legacy`
:   bitrate in 100kbit/s for 802.11abg

`mcs`
:   mcs index if `struct describes` an HT/VHT/HE/EHT/S1G/UHR rate

`nss`
:   number of streams (VHT & HE only)

`bw`
:   bandwidth (from `enum rate_info_bw`)

`he_gi`
:   HE guard interval (from `enum nl80211_he_gi`)

`he_dcm`
:   HE DCM value

`he_ru_alloc`
:   HE RU allocation (from `enum nl80211_he_ru_alloc`,
    only valid if bw is `RATE_INFO_BW_HE_RU`)

`n_bonded_ch`
:   In case of EDMG the number of bonded channels (1-4)

`eht_gi`
:   EHT guard interval (from `enum nl80211_eht_gi`)

`eht_ru_alloc`
:   EHT RU allocation (from `enum nl80211_eht_ru_alloc`,
    only valid if bw is `RATE_INFO_BW_EHT_RU`)

**Description**

Information about a receiving or transmitting bitrate

struct station\_info
:   station information

**Definition**:

```
struct station_info {
    u64 filled;
    u32 connected_time;
    u32 inactive_time;
    u64 assoc_at;
    u64 rx_bytes;
    u64 tx_bytes;
    s8 signal;
    s8 signal_avg;
    u8 chains;
    s8 chain_signal[IEEE80211_MAX_CHAINS];
    s8 chain_signal_avg[IEEE80211_MAX_CHAINS];
    struct rate_info txrate;
    struct rate_info rxrate;
    u32 rx_packets;
    u32 tx_packets;
    u32 tx_retries;
    u32 tx_failed;
    u32 rx_dropped_misc;
    struct sta_bss_parameters bss_param;
    struct nl80211_sta_flag_update sta_flags;
    int generation;
    u32 beacon_loss_count;
    const u8 *assoc_req_ies;
    size_t assoc_req_ies_len;
    s64 t_offset;
    u16 llid;
    u16 plid;
    u8 plink_state;
    u8 connected_to_gate;
    u8 connected_to_as;
    u32 airtime_link_metric;
    enum nl80211_mesh_power_mode local_pm;
    enum nl80211_mesh_power_mode peer_pm;
    enum nl80211_mesh_power_mode nonpeer_pm;
    u32 expected_throughput;
    u16 airtime_weight;
    s8 ack_signal;
    s8 avg_ack_signal;
    struct cfg80211_tid_stats *pertid;
    u64 tx_duration;
    u64 rx_duration;
    u64 rx_beacon;
    u8 rx_beacon_signal_avg;
    u32 rx_mpdu_count;
    u32 fcs_err_count;
    bool mlo_params_valid;
    u8 assoc_link_id;
    u8 mld_addr[ETH_ALEN];
    const u8 *assoc_resp_ies;
    size_t assoc_resp_ies_len;
    u16 valid_links;
    struct link_station_info *links[IEEE80211_MLD_MAX_NUM_LINKS];
};
```

**Members**

`filled`
:   bitflag of flags using the bits of `enum nl80211_sta_info` to
    indicate the relevant values in this struct for them

`connected_time`
:   time(in secs) since a station is last connected

`inactive_time`
:   time since last station activity (tx/rx) in milliseconds

`assoc_at`
:   bootime (ns) of the last association

`rx_bytes`
:   bytes (size of MPDUs) received from this station

`tx_bytes`
:   bytes (size of MPDUs) transmitted to this station

`signal`
:   The signal strength, type depends on the wiphy’s signal\_type.
    For CFG80211\_SIGNAL\_TYPE\_MBM, value is expressed in \_dBm\_.

`signal_avg`
:   Average signal strength, type depends on the wiphy’s signal\_type.
    For CFG80211\_SIGNAL\_TYPE\_MBM, value is expressed in \_dBm\_.

`chains`
:   bitmask for filled values in **chain\_signal**, **chain\_signal\_avg**

`chain_signal`
:   per-chain signal strength of last received packet in dBm

`chain_signal_avg`
:   per-chain signal strength average in dBm

`txrate`
:   current unicast bitrate from this station

`rxrate`
:   current unicast bitrate to this station

`rx_packets`
:   packets (MSDUs & MMPDUs) received from this station

`tx_packets`
:   packets (MSDUs & MMPDUs) transmitted to this station

`tx_retries`
:   cumulative retry counts (MPDUs)

`tx_failed`
:   number of failed transmissions (MPDUs) (retries exceeded, no ACK)

`rx_dropped_misc`
:   Dropped for un-specified reason.

`bss_param`
:   current BSS parameters

`sta_flags`
:   station flags mask & values

`generation`
:   generation number for nl80211 dumps.
    This number should increase every time the list of stations
    changes, i.e. when a station is added or removed, so that
    userspace can tell whether it got a consistent snapshot.

`beacon_loss_count`
:   Number of times beacon loss event has triggered.

`assoc_req_ies`
:   IEs from (Re)Association Request.
    This is used only when in AP mode with drivers that do not use
    user space MLME/SME implementation. The information is provided for
    the [`cfg80211_new_sta()`](#c.cfg80211_new_sta "cfg80211_new_sta") calls to notify user space of the IEs.

`assoc_req_ies_len`
:   Length of assoc\_req\_ies buffer in octets.

`t_offset`
:   Time offset of the station relative to this host.

`llid`
:   mesh local link id

`plid`
:   mesh peer link id

`plink_state`
:   mesh peer link state

`connected_to_gate`
:   true if mesh STA has a path to mesh gate

`connected_to_as`
:   true if mesh STA has a path to authentication server

`airtime_link_metric`
:   mesh airtime link metric.

`local_pm`
:   local mesh STA power save mode

`peer_pm`
:   peer mesh STA power save mode

`nonpeer_pm`
:   non-peer mesh STA power save mode

`expected_throughput`
:   expected throughput in kbps (including 802.11 headers)
    towards this station.

`airtime_weight`
:   current airtime scheduling weight

`ack_signal`
:   signal strength (in dBm) of the last ACK frame.

`avg_ack_signal`
:   average rssi value of ack packet for the no of msdu’s has
    been sent.

`pertid`
:   per-TID statistics, see `struct cfg80211_tid_stats`, using the last
    (IEEE80211\_NUM\_TIDS) index for MSDUs not encapsulated in QoS-MPDUs.
    Note that this doesn’t use the **filled** bit, but is used if non-NULL.

`tx_duration`
:   aggregate PPDU duration(usecs) for all the frames to a peer

`rx_duration`
:   aggregate PPDU duration(usecs) for all the frames from a peer

`rx_beacon`
:   number of beacons received from this peer

`rx_beacon_signal_avg`
:   signal strength average (in dBm) for beacons received
    from this peer

`rx_mpdu_count`
:   number of MPDUs received from this station

`fcs_err_count`
:   number of packets (MPDUs) received from this station with
    an FCS error. This counter should be incremented only when TA of the
    received packet with an FCS error matches the peer MAC address.

`mlo_params_valid`
:   Indicates **assoc\_link\_id** and **mld\_addr** fields are filled
    by driver. Drivers use this only in [`cfg80211_new_sta()`](#c.cfg80211_new_sta "cfg80211_new_sta") calls when AP
    MLD’s MLME/SME is offload to driver. Drivers won’t fill this
    information in `cfg80211_del_sta_sinfo()`, `get_station()` and
    `dump_station()` callbacks.

`assoc_link_id`
:   Indicates MLO link ID of the AP, with which the station
    completed (re)association. This information filled for both MLO
    and non-MLO STA connections when the AP affiliated with an MLD.

`mld_addr`
:   For MLO STA connection, filled with MLD address of the station.
    For non-MLO STA connection, filled with all zeros.

`assoc_resp_ies`
:   IEs from (Re)Association Response.
    This is used only when in AP mode with drivers that do not use user
    space MLME/SME implementation. The information is provided only for the
    [`cfg80211_new_sta()`](#c.cfg80211_new_sta "cfg80211_new_sta") calls to notify user space of the IEs. Drivers won’t
    fill this information in `cfg80211_del_sta_sinfo()`, `get_station()` and
    `dump_station()` callbacks. User space needs this information to determine
    the accepted and rejected affiliated links of the connected station.

`assoc_resp_ies_len`
:   Length of **assoc\_resp\_ies** buffer in octets.

`valid_links`
:   bitmap of valid links, or 0 for non-MLO. Drivers fill this
    information in [`cfg80211_new_sta()`](#c.cfg80211_new_sta "cfg80211_new_sta"), `cfg80211_del_sta_sinfo()`,
    `get_station()` and `dump_station()` callbacks.

`links`
:   reference to Link sta entries for MLO STA, all link specific
    information is accessed through links[link\_id].

**Description**

Station information filled by driver for `get_station()` and dump\_station.

enum monitor\_flags
:   monitor flags

**Constants**

`MONITOR_FLAG_CHANGED`
:   set if the flags were changed

`MONITOR_FLAG_FCSFAIL`
:   pass frames with bad FCS

`MONITOR_FLAG_PLCPFAIL`
:   pass frames with bad PLCP

`MONITOR_FLAG_CONTROL`
:   pass control frames

`MONITOR_FLAG_OTHER_BSS`
:   disable BSSID filtering

`MONITOR_FLAG_COOK_FRAMES`
:   deprecated, will unconditionally be refused

`MONITOR_FLAG_ACTIVE`
:   active monitor, ACKs frames on its MAC address

`MONITOR_FLAG_SKIP_TX`
:   do not pass locally transmitted frames

**Description**

Monitor interface configuration flags. Note that these must be the bits
according to the nl80211 flags.

enum mpath\_info\_flags
:   mesh path information flags

**Constants**

`MPATH_INFO_FRAME_QLEN`
:   **frame\_qlen** filled

`MPATH_INFO_SN`
:   **sn** filled

`MPATH_INFO_METRIC`
:   **metric** filled

`MPATH_INFO_EXPTIME`
:   **exptime** filled

`MPATH_INFO_DISCOVERY_TIMEOUT`
:   **discovery\_timeout** filled

`MPATH_INFO_DISCOVERY_RETRIES`
:   **discovery\_retries** filled

`MPATH_INFO_FLAGS`
:   **flags** filled

`MPATH_INFO_HOP_COUNT`
:   **hop\_count** filled

`MPATH_INFO_PATH_CHANGE`
:   **path\_change\_count** filled

**Description**

Used by the driver to indicate which info in [`struct mpath_info`](#c.mpath_info "mpath_info") it has filled
in during `get_station()` or `dump_station()`.

struct mpath\_info
:   mesh path information

**Definition**:

```
struct mpath_info {
    u32 filled;
    u32 frame_qlen;
    u32 sn;
    u32 metric;
    u32 exptime;
    u32 discovery_timeout;
    u8 discovery_retries;
    u8 flags;
    u8 hop_count;
    u32 path_change_count;
    int generation;
};
```

**Members**

`filled`
:   bitfield of flags from [`enum mpath_info_flags`](#c.mpath_info_flags "mpath_info_flags")

`frame_qlen`
:   number of queued frames for this destination

`sn`
:   target sequence number

`metric`
:   metric (cost) of this mesh path

`exptime`
:   expiration time for the mesh path from now, in msecs

`discovery_timeout`
:   total mesh path discovery timeout, in msecs

`discovery_retries`
:   mesh path discovery retries

`flags`
:   mesh path flags from `enum mesh_path_flags`

`hop_count`
:   hops to destination

`path_change_count`
:   total number of path changes to destination

`generation`
:   generation number for nl80211 dumps.
    This number should increase every time the list of mesh paths
    changes, i.e. when a station is added or removed, so that
    userspace can tell whether it got a consistent snapshot.

**Description**

Mesh path information filled by driver for `get_mpath()` and `dump_mpath()`.

struct bss\_parameters
:   BSS parameters

**Definition**:

```
struct bss_parameters {
    int link_id;
    int use_cts_prot;
    int use_short_preamble;
    int use_short_slot_time;
    const u8 *basic_rates;
    u8 basic_rates_len;
    int ap_isolate;
    int ht_opmode;
    s8 p2p_ctwindow, p2p_opp_ps;
};
```

**Members**

`link_id`
:   link\_id or -1 for non-MLD

`use_cts_prot`
:   Whether to use CTS protection
    (0 = no, 1 = yes, -1 = do not change)

`use_short_preamble`
:   Whether the use of short preambles is allowed
    (0 = no, 1 = yes, -1 = do not change)

`use_short_slot_time`
:   Whether the use of short slot time is allowed
    (0 = no, 1 = yes, -1 = do not change)

`basic_rates`
:   basic rates in IEEE 802.11 format
    (or NULL for no change)

`basic_rates_len`
:   number of basic rates

`ap_isolate`
:   do not forward packets between connected stations
    (0 = no, 1 = yes, -1 = do not change)

`ht_opmode`
:   HT Operation mode
    (u16 = opmode, -1 = do not change)

`p2p_ctwindow`
:   P2P CT Window (-1 = no change)

`p2p_opp_ps`
:   P2P opportunistic PS (-1 = no change)

**Description**

Used to change BSS parameters (mainly for AP mode).

struct ieee80211\_txq\_params
:   TX queue parameters

**Definition**:

```
struct ieee80211_txq_params {
    enum nl80211_ac ac;
    u16 txop;
    u16 cwmin;
    u16 cwmax;
    u8 aifs;
    int link_id;
};
```

**Members**

`ac`
:   AC identifier

`txop`
:   Maximum burst time in units of 32 usecs, 0 meaning disabled

`cwmin`
:   Minimum contention window [a value of the form 2^n-1 in the range
    1..32767]

`cwmax`
:   Maximum contention window [a value of the form 2^n-1 in the range
    1..32767]

`aifs`
:   Arbitration interframe space [0..255]

`link_id`
:   link\_id or -1 for non-MLD

struct cfg80211\_auth\_request
:   Authentication request data

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_auth_request {
    struct cfg80211_bss *bss;
    const u8 *ie;
    size_t ie_len;
    const u8 *supported_selectors;
    u8 supported_selectors_len;
    enum nl80211_auth_type auth_type;
    const u8 *key;
    u8 key_len;
    s8 key_idx;
    const u8 *auth_data;
    size_t auth_data_len;
    s8 link_id;
    const u8 *ap_mld_addr;
};
```

**Members**

`bss`
:   The BSS to authenticate with, the callee must obtain a reference
    to it if it needs to keep it.

`ie`
:   Extra IEs to add to Authentication frame or `NULL`

`ie_len`
:   Length of ie buffer in octets

`supported_selectors`
:   List of selectors that should be assumed to be
    supported by the station.
    SAE\_H2E must be assumed supported if set to `NULL`.

`supported_selectors_len`
:   Length of supported\_selectors in octets.

`auth_type`
:   Authentication type (algorithm)

`key`
:   WEP key for shared key authentication

`key_len`
:   length of WEP key for shared key authentication

`key_idx`
:   index of WEP key for shared key authentication

`auth_data`
:   Fields and elements in Authentication frames. This contains
    the authentication frame body (non-IE and IE data), excluding the
    Authentication algorithm number, i.e., starting at the Authentication
    transaction sequence number field.

`auth_data_len`
:   Length of auth\_data buffer in octets

`link_id`
:   if >= 0, indicates authentication should be done as an MLD,
    the interface address is included as the MLD address and the
    necessary link (with the given link\_id) will be created (and
    given an MLD address) by the driver

`ap_mld_addr`
:   AP MLD address in case of authentication request with
    an AP MLD, valid iff **link\_id** >= 0

**Description**

This structure provides information needed to complete IEEE 802.11
authentication.

struct cfg80211\_assoc\_request
:   (Re)Association request data

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_assoc_request {
    struct cfg80211_bss *bss;
    const u8 *ie, *prev_bssid;
    size_t ie_len;
    struct cfg80211_crypto_settings crypto;
    bool use_mfp;
    u32 flags;
    const u8 *supported_selectors;
    u8 supported_selectors_len;
    struct ieee80211_ht_cap ht_capa;
    struct ieee80211_ht_cap ht_capa_mask;
    struct ieee80211_vht_cap vht_capa, vht_capa_mask;
    const u8 *fils_kek;
    size_t fils_kek_len;
    const u8 *fils_nonces;
    struct ieee80211_s1g_cap s1g_capa, s1g_capa_mask;
    struct cfg80211_assoc_link links[IEEE80211_MLD_MAX_NUM_LINKS];
    const u8 *ap_mld_addr;
    s8 link_id;
    u16 ext_mld_capa_ops;
};
```

**Members**

`bss`
:   The BSS to associate with. If the call is successful the driver is
    given a reference that it must give back to `cfg80211_send_rx_assoc()`
    or to `cfg80211_assoc_timeout()`. To ensure proper refcounting, new
    association requests while already associating must be rejected.
    This also applies to the **links.bss** parameter, which is used instead
    of this one (it is `NULL`) for MLO associations.

`ie`
:   Extra IEs to add to (Re)Association Request frame or `NULL`

`prev_bssid`
:   previous BSSID, if not `NULL` use reassociate frame. This is used
    to indicate a request to reassociate within the ESS instead of a request
    do the initial association with the ESS. When included, this is set to
    the BSSID of the current association, i.e., to the value that is
    included in the Current AP address field of the Reassociation Request
    frame.

`ie_len`
:   Length of ie buffer in octets

`crypto`
:   crypto settings

`use_mfp`
:   Use management frame protection (IEEE 802.11w) in this association

`flags`
:   See `enum cfg80211_assoc_req_flags`

`supported_selectors`
:   supported BSS selectors in IEEE 802.11 format
    (or `NULL` for no change).
    If `NULL`, then support for SAE\_H2E should be assumed.

`supported_selectors_len`
:   number of supported BSS selectors

`ht_capa`
:   HT Capabilities over-rides. Values set in ht\_capa\_mask
    will be used in ht\_capa. Un-supported values will be ignored.

`ht_capa_mask`
:   The bits of ht\_capa which are to be used.

`vht_capa`
:   VHT capability override

`vht_capa_mask`
:   VHT capability mask indicating which fields to use

`fils_kek`
:   FILS KEK for protecting (Re)Association Request/Response frame or
    `NULL` if FILS is not used.

`fils_kek_len`
:   Length of fils\_kek in octets

`fils_nonces`
:   FILS nonces (part of AAD) for protecting (Re)Association
    Request/Response frame or `NULL` if FILS is not used. This field starts
    with 16 octets of STA Nonce followed by 16 octets of AP Nonce.

`s1g_capa`
:   S1G capability override

`s1g_capa_mask`
:   S1G capability override mask

`links`
:   per-link information for MLO connections

`ap_mld_addr`
:   AP MLD address in case of MLO association request,
    valid iff **link\_id** >= 0

`link_id`
:   >= 0 for MLO connections, where links are given, and indicates
    the link on which the association request should be sent

`ext_mld_capa_ops`
:   extended MLD capabilities and operations set by
    userspace for the association

**Description**

This structure provides information needed to complete IEEE 802.11
(re)association.

struct cfg80211\_deauth\_request
:   Deauthentication request data

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_deauth_request {
    const u8 *bssid;
    const u8 *ie;
    size_t ie_len;
    u16 reason_code;
    bool local_state_change;
};
```

**Members**

`bssid`
:   the BSSID or AP MLD address to deauthenticate from

`ie`
:   Extra IEs to add to Deauthentication frame or `NULL`

`ie_len`
:   Length of ie buffer in octets

`reason_code`
:   The reason code for the deauthentication

`local_state_change`
:   if set, change local state only and
    do not set a deauth frame

**Description**

This structure provides information needed to complete IEEE 802.11
deauthentication.

struct cfg80211\_disassoc\_request
:   Disassociation request data

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_disassoc_request {
    const u8 *ap_addr;
    const u8 *ie;
    size_t ie_len;
    u16 reason_code;
    bool local_state_change;
};
```

**Members**

`ap_addr`
:   the BSSID or AP MLD address to disassociate from

`ie`
:   Extra IEs to add to Disassociation frame or `NULL`

`ie_len`
:   Length of ie buffer in octets

`reason_code`
:   The reason code for the disassociation

`local_state_change`
:   This is a request for a local state only, i.e., no
    Disassociation frame is to be transmitted.

**Description**

This structure provides information needed to complete IEEE 802.11
disassociation.

struct cfg80211\_ibss\_params
:   IBSS parameters

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_ibss_params {
    const u8 *ssid;
    const u8 *bssid;
    struct cfg80211_chan_def chandef;
    const u8 *ie;
    u8 ssid_len, ie_len;
    u16 beacon_interval;
    u32 basic_rates;
    bool channel_fixed;
    bool privacy;
    bool control_port;
    bool control_port_over_nl80211;
    bool userspace_handles_dfs;
    int mcast_rate[NUM_NL80211_BANDS];
    struct ieee80211_ht_cap ht_capa;
    struct ieee80211_ht_cap ht_capa_mask;
    struct key_params *wep_keys;
    int wep_tx_key;
};
```

**Members**

`ssid`
:   The SSID, will always be non-null.

`bssid`
:   Fixed BSSID requested, maybe be `NULL`, if set do not
    search for IBSSs with a different BSSID.

`chandef`
:   defines the channel to use if no other IBSS to join can be found

`ie`
:   information element(s) to include in the beacon

`ssid_len`
:   The length of the SSID, will always be non-zero.

`ie_len`
:   length of that

`beacon_interval`
:   beacon interval to use

`basic_rates`
:   bitmap of basic rates to use when creating the IBSS

`channel_fixed`
:   The channel should be fixed -- do not search for
    IBSSs to join on other channels.

`privacy`
:   this is a protected network, keys will be configured
    after joining

`control_port`
:   whether user space controls IEEE 802.1X port, i.e.,
    sets/clears `NL80211_STA_FLAG_AUTHORIZED`. If true, the driver is
    required to assume that the port is unauthorized until authorized by
    user space. Otherwise, port is marked authorized by default.

`control_port_over_nl80211`
:   TRUE if userspace expects to exchange control
    port frames over NL80211 instead of the network interface.

`userspace_handles_dfs`
:   whether user space controls DFS operation, i.e.
    changes the channel when a radar is detected. This is required
    to operate on DFS channels.

`mcast_rate`
:   per-band multicast rate index + 1 (0: disabled)

`ht_capa`
:   HT Capabilities over-rides. Values set in ht\_capa\_mask
    will be used in ht\_capa. Un-supported values will be ignored.

`ht_capa_mask`
:   The bits of ht\_capa which are to be used.

`wep_keys`
:   static WEP keys, if not NULL points to an array of
    CFG80211\_MAX\_WEP\_KEYS WEP keys

`wep_tx_key`
:   key index (0..3) of the default TX static WEP key

**Description**

This structure defines the IBSS parameters for the `join_ibss()`
method.

struct cfg80211\_connect\_params
:   Connection parameters

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_connect_params {
    struct ieee80211_channel *channel;
    struct ieee80211_channel *channel_hint;
    const u8 *bssid;
    const u8 *bssid_hint;
    const u8 *ssid;
    size_t ssid_len;
    enum nl80211_auth_type auth_type;
    const u8 *ie;
    size_t ie_len;
    bool privacy;
    enum nl80211_mfp mfp;
    struct cfg80211_crypto_settings crypto;
    const u8 *key;
    u8 key_len, key_idx;
    u32 flags;
    int bg_scan_period;
    struct ieee80211_ht_cap ht_capa;
    struct ieee80211_ht_cap ht_capa_mask;
    struct ieee80211_vht_cap vht_capa;
    struct ieee80211_vht_cap vht_capa_mask;
    bool pbss;
    struct cfg80211_bss_selection bss_select;
    const u8 *prev_bssid;
    const u8 *fils_erp_username;
    size_t fils_erp_username_len;
    const u8 *fils_erp_realm;
    size_t fils_erp_realm_len;
    u16 fils_erp_next_seq_num;
    const u8 *fils_erp_rrk;
    size_t fils_erp_rrk_len;
    bool want_1x;
    struct ieee80211_edmg edmg;
};
```

**Members**

`channel`
:   The channel to use or `NULL` if not specified (auto-select based
    on scan results)

`channel_hint`
:   The channel of the recommended BSS for initial connection or
    `NULL` if not specified

`bssid`
:   The AP BSSID or `NULL` if not specified (auto-select based on scan
    results)

`bssid_hint`
:   The recommended AP BSSID for initial connection to the BSS or
    `NULL` if not specified. Unlike the **bssid** parameter, the driver is
    allowed to ignore this **bssid\_hint** if it has knowledge of a better BSS
    to use.

`ssid`
:   SSID

`ssid_len`
:   Length of ssid in octets

`auth_type`
:   Authentication type (algorithm)

`ie`
:   IEs for association request

`ie_len`
:   Length of assoc\_ie in octets

`privacy`
:   indicates whether privacy-enabled APs should be used

`mfp`
:   indicate whether management frame protection is used

`crypto`
:   crypto settings

`key`
:   WEP key for shared key authentication

`key_len`
:   length of WEP key for shared key authentication

`key_idx`
:   index of WEP key for shared key authentication

`flags`
:   See `enum cfg80211_assoc_req_flags`

`bg_scan_period`
:   Background scan period in seconds
    or -1 to indicate that default value is to be used.

`ht_capa`
:   HT Capabilities over-rides. Values set in ht\_capa\_mask
    will be used in ht\_capa. Un-supported values will be ignored.

`ht_capa_mask`
:   The bits of ht\_capa which are to be used.

`vht_capa`
:   VHT Capability overrides

`vht_capa_mask`
:   The bits of vht\_capa which are to be used.

`pbss`
:   if set, connect to a PCP instead of AP. Valid for DMG
    networks.

`bss_select`
:   criteria to be used for BSS selection.

`prev_bssid`
:   previous BSSID, if not `NULL` use reassociate frame. This is used
    to indicate a request to reassociate within the ESS instead of a request
    do the initial association with the ESS. When included, this is set to
    the BSSID of the current association, i.e., to the value that is
    included in the Current AP address field of the Reassociation Request
    frame.

`fils_erp_username`
:   EAP re-authentication protocol (ERP) username part of the
    NAI or `NULL` if not specified. This is used to construct FILS wrapped
    data IE.

`fils_erp_username_len`
:   Length of **fils\_erp\_username** in octets.

`fils_erp_realm`
:   EAP re-authentication protocol (ERP) realm part of NAI or
    `NULL` if not specified. This specifies the domain name of ER server and
    is used to construct FILS wrapped data IE.

`fils_erp_realm_len`
:   Length of **fils\_erp\_realm** in octets.

`fils_erp_next_seq_num`
:   The next sequence number to use in the FILS ERP
    messages. This is also used to construct FILS wrapped data IE.

`fils_erp_rrk`
:   ERP re-authentication Root Key (rRK) used to derive additional
    keys in FILS or `NULL` if not specified.

`fils_erp_rrk_len`
:   Length of **fils\_erp\_rrk** in octets.

`want_1x`
:   indicates user-space supports and wants to use 802.1X driver
    offload of 4-way handshake.

`edmg`
:   define the EDMG channels.
    This may specify multiple channels and bonding options for the driver
    to choose from, based on BSS configuration.

**Description**

This structure provides information needed to complete IEEE 802.11
authentication and association.

struct cfg80211\_pmksa
:   PMK Security Association

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_pmksa {
    const u8 *bssid;
    const u8 *pmkid;
    const u8 *pmk;
    size_t pmk_len;
    const u8 *ssid;
    size_t ssid_len;
    const u8 *cache_id;
    u32 pmk_lifetime;
    u8 pmk_reauth_threshold;
};
```

**Members**

`bssid`
:   The AP’s BSSID (may be `NULL`).

`pmkid`
:   The identifier to refer a PMKSA.

`pmk`
:   The PMK for the PMKSA identified by **pmkid**. This is used for key
    derivation by a FILS STA. Otherwise, `NULL`.

`pmk_len`
:   Length of the **pmk**. The length of **pmk** can differ depending on
    the hash algorithm used to generate this.

`ssid`
:   SSID to specify the ESS within which a PMKSA is valid when using FILS
    cache identifier (may be `NULL`).

`ssid_len`
:   Length of the **ssid** in octets.

`cache_id`
:   2-octet cache identifier advertized by a FILS AP identifying the
    scope of PMKSA. This is valid only if **ssid\_len** is non-zero (may be
    `NULL`).

`pmk_lifetime`
:   Maximum lifetime for PMKSA in seconds
    (dot11RSNAConfigPMKLifetime) or 0 if not specified.
    The configured PMKSA must not be used for PMKSA caching after
    expiration and any keys derived from this PMK become invalid on
    expiration, i.e., the current association must be dropped if the PMK
    used for it expires.

`pmk_reauth_threshold`
:   Threshold time for reauthentication (percentage of
    PMK lifetime, dot11RSNAConfigPMKReauthThreshold) or 0 if not specified.
    Drivers are expected to trigger a full authentication instead of using
    this PMKSA for caching when reassociating to a new BSS after this
    threshold to generate a new PMK before the current one expires.

**Description**

This structure is passed to the set/`del_pmksa()` method for PMKSA
caching.

struct cfg80211\_ops
:   backend description for wireless configuration

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_ops {
    int (*suspend)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct cfg80211_wowlan *wow);
    int (*resume)(struct wiphy *wiphy);
    void (*set_wakeup)(struct wiphy *wiphy, bool enabled);
    struct wireless_dev * (*add_virtual_intf)(struct wiphy *wiphy, const char *name, unsigned char name_assign_type, enum nl80211_iftype type, struct vif_params *params);
    int (*del_virtual_intf)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev);
    int (*change_virtual_intf)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, enum nl80211_iftype type, struct vif_params *params);
    int (*add_intf_link)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, unsigned int link_id);
    void (*del_intf_link)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, unsigned int link_id);
    int (*add_key)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, int link_id, u8 key_index, bool pairwise, const u8 *mac_addr, struct key_params *params);
    int (*get_key)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, int link_id, u8 key_index, bool pairwise, const u8 *mac_addr, void *cookie, void (*callback)(void *cookie, struct key_params*));
    int (*del_key)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, int link_id, u8 key_index, bool pairwise, const u8 *mac_addr);
    int (*set_default_key)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *netdev, int link_id, u8 key_index, bool unicast, bool multicast);
    int (*set_default_mgmt_key)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, int link_id, u8 key_index);
    int (*set_default_beacon_key)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, int link_id, u8 key_index);
    int (*start_ap)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_ap_settings *settings);
    int (*change_beacon)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_ap_update *info);
    int (*stop_ap)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, unsigned int link_id);
    int (*add_station)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, const u8 *mac, struct station_parameters *params);
    int (*del_station)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, struct station_del_parameters *params);
    int (*change_station)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, const u8 *mac, struct station_parameters *params);
    int (*get_station)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, const u8 *mac, struct station_info *sinfo);
    int (*dump_station)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, int idx, u8 *mac, struct station_info *sinfo);
    int (*add_mpath)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const u8 *dst, const u8 *next_hop);
    int (*del_mpath)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const u8 *dst);
    int (*change_mpath)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const u8 *dst, const u8 *next_hop);
    int (*get_mpath)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, u8 *dst, u8 *next_hop, struct mpath_info *pinfo);
    int (*dump_mpath)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, int idx, u8 *dst, u8 *next_hop, struct mpath_info *pinfo);
    int (*get_mpp)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, u8 *dst, u8 *mpp, struct mpath_info *pinfo);
    int (*dump_mpp)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, int idx, u8 *dst, u8 *mpp, struct mpath_info *pinfo);
    int (*get_mesh_config)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct mesh_config *conf);
    int (*update_mesh_config)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, u32 mask, const struct mesh_config *nconf);
    int (*join_mesh)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const struct mesh_config *conf, const struct mesh_setup *setup);
    int (*leave_mesh)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev);
    int (*join_ocb)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct ocb_setup *setup);
    int (*leave_ocb)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev);
    int (*change_bss)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct bss_parameters *params);
    void (*inform_bss)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct cfg80211_bss *bss, const struct cfg80211_bss_ies *ies, void *data);
    int (*set_txq_params)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct ieee80211_txq_params *params);
    int (*libertas_set_mesh_channel)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct ieee80211_channel *chan);
    int (*set_monitor_channel)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_chan_def *chandef);
    int (*scan)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct cfg80211_scan_request *request);
    void (*abort_scan)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev);
    int (*auth)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_auth_request *req);
    int (*assoc)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_assoc_request *req);
    int (*deauth)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_deauth_request *req);
    int (*disassoc)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_disassoc_request *req);
    int (*connect)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_connect_params *sme);
    int (*update_connect_params)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_connect_params *sme, u32 changed);
    int (*disconnect)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, u16 reason_code);
    int (*join_ibss)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_ibss_params *params);
    int (*leave_ibss)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev);
    int (*set_mcast_rate)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, int rate[NUM_NL80211_BANDS]);
    int (*set_wiphy_params)(struct wiphy *wiphy, int radio_idx, u32 changed);
    int (*set_tx_power)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, int radio_idx, enum nl80211_tx_power_setting type, int mbm);
    int (*get_tx_power)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, int radio_idx, unsigned int link_id, int *dbm);
    void (*rfkill_poll)(struct wiphy *wiphy);
#ifdef CONFIG_NL80211_TESTMODE;
    int (*testmode_cmd)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, void *data, int len);
    int (*testmode_dump)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct sk_buff *skb, struct netlink_callback *cb, void *data, int len);
#endif;
    int (*set_bitrate_mask)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, unsigned int link_id, const u8 *peer, const struct cfg80211_bitrate_mask *mask);
    int (*dump_survey)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *netdev, int idx, struct survey_info *info);
    int (*set_pmksa)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *netdev, struct cfg80211_pmksa *pmksa);
    int (*del_pmksa)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *netdev, struct cfg80211_pmksa *pmksa);
    int (*flush_pmksa)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *netdev);
    int (*remain_on_channel)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, struct ieee80211_channel *chan, unsigned int duration, u64 *cookie);
    int (*cancel_remain_on_channel)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, u64 cookie);
    int (*mgmt_tx)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, struct cfg80211_mgmt_tx_params *params, u64 *cookie);
    int (*mgmt_tx_cancel_wait)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, u64 cookie);
    int (*set_power_mgmt)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, bool enabled, int timeout);
    int (*set_cqm_rssi_config)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, s32 rssi_thold, u32 rssi_hyst);
    int (*set_cqm_rssi_range_config)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, s32 rssi_low, s32 rssi_high);
    int (*set_cqm_txe_config)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, u32 rate, u32 pkts, u32 intvl);
    void (*update_mgmt_frame_registrations)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, struct mgmt_frame_regs *upd);
    int (*set_antenna)(struct wiphy *wiphy, int radio_idx, u32 tx_ant, u32 rx_ant);
    int (*get_antenna)(struct wiphy *wiphy, int radio_idx, u32 *tx_ant, u32 *rx_ant);
    int (*sched_scan_start)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_sched_scan_request *request);
    int (*sched_scan_stop)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, u64 reqid);
    int (*set_rekey_data)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_gtk_rekey_data *data);
    int (*tdls_mgmt)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const u8 *peer, int link_id, u8 action_code, u8 dialog_token, u16 status_code, u32 peer_capability, bool initiator, const u8 *buf, size_t len);
    int (*tdls_oper)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const u8 *peer, enum nl80211_tdls_operation oper);
    int (*probe_client)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const u8 *peer, u64 *cookie);
    int (*set_noack_map)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, u16 noack_map);
    int (*get_channel)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, unsigned int link_id, struct cfg80211_chan_def *chandef);
    int (*start_p2p_device)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev);
    void (*stop_p2p_device)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev);
    int (*set_mac_acl)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const struct cfg80211_acl_data *params);
    int (*start_radar_detection)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_chan_def *chandef, u32 cac_time_ms, int link_id);
    void (*end_cac)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, unsigned int link_id);
    int (*update_ft_ies)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_update_ft_ies_params *ftie);
    int (*crit_proto_start)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, enum nl80211_crit_proto_id protocol, u16 duration);
    void (*crit_proto_stop)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev);
    int (*set_coalesce)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct cfg80211_coalesce *coalesce);
    int (*channel_switch)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_csa_settings *params);
    int (*set_qos_map)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_qos_map *qos_map);
    int (*set_ap_chanwidth)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, unsigned int link_id, struct cfg80211_chan_def *chandef);
    int (*add_tx_ts)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, u8 tsid, const u8 *peer, u8 user_prio, u16 admitted_time);
    int (*del_tx_ts)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, u8 tsid, const u8 *peer);
    int (*tdls_channel_switch)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const u8 *addr, u8 oper_class, struct cfg80211_chan_def *chandef);
    void (*tdls_cancel_channel_switch)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const u8 *addr);
    int (*start_nan)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, struct cfg80211_nan_conf *conf);
    void (*stop_nan)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev);
    int (*add_nan_func)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, struct cfg80211_nan_func *nan_func);
    void (*del_nan_func)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, u64 cookie);
    int (*nan_change_conf)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, struct cfg80211_nan_conf *conf, u32 changes);
    int (*nan_set_local_sched)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, struct cfg80211_nan_local_sched *sched);
    int (*nan_set_peer_sched)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, struct cfg80211_nan_peer_sched *sched);
    int (*set_multicast_to_unicast)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const bool enabled);
    int (*get_txq_stats)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, struct cfg80211_txq_stats *txqstats);
    int (*set_pmk)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const struct cfg80211_pmk_conf *conf);
    int (*del_pmk)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const u8 *aa);
    int (*external_auth)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_external_auth_params *params);
    int (*tx_control_port)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const u8 *buf, size_t len, const u8 *dest, const __be16 proto, const bool noencrypt, int link_id, u64 *cookie);
    int (*get_ftm_responder_stats)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_ftm_responder_stats *ftm_stats);
    int (*start_pmsr)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, struct cfg80211_pmsr_request *request);
    void (*abort_pmsr)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct wireless_dev *wdev, struct cfg80211_pmsr_request *request);
    int (*update_owe_info)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_update_owe_info *owe_info);
    int (*probe_mesh_link)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const u8 *buf, size_t len);
    int (*set_tid_config)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_tid_config *tid_conf);
    int (*reset_tid_config)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, const u8 *peer, u8 tids);
    int (*set_sar_specs)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct cfg80211_sar_specs *sar);
    int (*color_change)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_color_change_settings *params);
    int (*set_fils_aad)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_fils_aad *fils_aad);
    int (*set_radar_background)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct cfg80211_chan_def *chandef);
    int (*add_link_station)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct link_station_parameters *params);
    int (*mod_link_station)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct link_station_parameters *params);
    int (*del_link_station)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct link_station_del_parameters *params);
    int (*set_hw_timestamp)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_set_hw_timestamp *hwts);
    int (*set_ttlm)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_ttlm_params *params);
    u32 (*get_radio_mask)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev);
    int (*assoc_ml_reconf)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, struct cfg80211_ml_reconf_req *req);
    int (*set_epcs)(struct wiphy *wiphy, struct net_device *dev, bool val);
};
```

**Members**

`suspend`
:   wiphy device needs to be suspended. The variable **wow** will
    be `NULL` or contain the enabled Wake-on-Wireless triggers that are
    configured for the device.

`resume`
:   wiphy device needs to be resumed

`set_wakeup`
:   Called when WoWLAN is enabled/disabled, use this callback
    to call `device_set_wakeup_enable()` to enable/disable wakeup from
    the device.

`add_virtual_intf`
:   create a new virtual interface with the given name,
    must set the [`struct wireless_dev`](#c.wireless_dev "wireless_dev")’s iftype. Beware: You must create
    the new netdev in the wiphy’s network namespace! Returns the [`struct
    wireless_dev`](#c.wireless_dev "wireless_dev"), or an ERR\_PTR. For P2P device wdevs, the driver must
    also set the address member in the wdev.
    This additionally holds the RTNL to be able to do netdev changes.

`del_virtual_intf`
:   remove the virtual interface
    This additionally holds the RTNL to be able to do netdev changes.

`change_virtual_intf`
:   change type/configuration of virtual interface,
    keep the [`struct wireless_dev`](#c.wireless_dev "wireless_dev")’s iftype updated.
    This additionally holds the RTNL to be able to do netdev changes.

`add_intf_link`
:   Add a new MLO link to the given interface. Note that
    the wdev->link[] data structure has been updated, so the new link
    address is available.

`del_intf_link`
:   Remove an MLO link from the given interface.

`add_key`
:   add a key with the given parameters. **mac\_addr** will be `NULL`
    when adding a group key. **link\_id** will be -1 for non-MLO connection.
    For MLO connection, **link\_id** will be >= 0 for group key and -1 for
    pairwise key, **mac\_addr** will be peer’s MLD address for MLO pairwise key.

`get_key`
:   get information about the key with the given parameters.
    **mac\_addr** will be `NULL` when requesting information for a group
    key. All pointers given to the **callback** function need not be valid
    after it returns. This function should return an error if it is
    not possible to retrieve the key, -ENOENT if it doesn’t exist.
    **link\_id** will be -1 for non-MLO connection. For MLO connection,
    **link\_id** will be >= 0 for group key and -1 for pairwise key, **mac\_addr**
    will be peer’s MLD address for MLO pairwise key.

`del_key`
:   remove a key given the **mac\_addr** (`NULL` for a group key)
    and **key\_index**, return -ENOENT if the key doesn’t exist. **link\_id** will
    be -1 for non-MLO connection. For MLO connection, **link\_id** will be >= 0
    for group key and -1 for pairwise key, **mac\_addr** will be peer’s MLD
    address for MLO pairwise key.

`set_default_key`
:   set the default key on an interface. **link\_id** will be >= 0
    for MLO connection and -1 for non-MLO connection.

`set_default_mgmt_key`
:   set the default management frame key on an interface.
    **link\_id** will be >= 0 for MLO connection and -1 for non-MLO connection.

`set_default_beacon_key`
:   set the default Beacon frame key on an interface.
    **link\_id** will be >= 0 for MLO connection and -1 for non-MLO connection.

`start_ap`
:   Start acting in AP mode defined by the parameters.

`change_beacon`
:   Change the beacon parameters for an access point mode
    interface. This should reject the call when AP mode wasn’t started.

`stop_ap`
:   Stop being an AP, including stopping beaconing.

`add_station`
:   Add a new station.

`del_station`
:   Remove a station

`change_station`
:   Modify a given station. Note that flags changes are not much
    validated in cfg80211, in particular the auth/assoc/authorized flags
    might come to the driver in invalid combinations -- make sure to check
    them, also against the existing state! Drivers must call
    `cfg80211_check_station_change()` to validate the information.

`get_station`
:   get station information for the station identified by **mac**

`dump_station`
:   dump station callback -- resume dump at index **idx**

`add_mpath`
:   add a fixed mesh path

`del_mpath`
:   delete a given mesh path

`change_mpath`
:   change a given mesh path

`get_mpath`
:   get a mesh path for the given parameters

`dump_mpath`
:   dump mesh path callback -- resume dump at index **idx**

`get_mpp`
:   get a mesh proxy path for the given parameters

`dump_mpp`
:   dump mesh proxy path callback -- resume dump at index **idx**

`get_mesh_config`
:   Get the current mesh configuration

`update_mesh_config`
:   Update mesh parameters on a running mesh.
    The mask is a bitfield which tells us which parameters to
    set, and which to leave alone.

`join_mesh`
:   join the mesh network with the specified parameters
    (invoked with the wireless\_dev mutex held)

`leave_mesh`
:   leave the current mesh network
    (invoked with the wireless\_dev mutex held)

`join_ocb`
:   join the OCB network with the specified parameters
    (invoked with the wireless\_dev mutex held)

`leave_ocb`
:   leave the current OCB network
    (invoked with the wireless\_dev mutex held)

`change_bss`
:   Modify parameters for a given BSS.

`inform_bss`
:   Called by cfg80211 while being informed about new BSS data
    for every BSS found within the reported data or frame. This is called
    from within the cfg8011 inform\_bss handlers while holding the bss\_lock.
    The data parameter is passed through from drv\_data inside
    [`struct cfg80211_inform_bss`](#c.cfg80211_inform_bss "cfg80211_inform_bss").
    The new IE data for the BSS is explicitly passed.

`set_txq_params`
:   Set TX queue parameters

`libertas_set_mesh_channel`
:   Only for backward compatibility for libertas,
    as it doesn’t implement join\_mesh and needs to set the channel to
    join the mesh instead.

`set_monitor_channel`
:   Set the monitor mode channel for the device. If other
    interfaces are active this callback should reject the configuration.
    If no interfaces are active or the device is down, the channel should
    be stored for when a monitor interface becomes active.

`scan`
:   Request to do a scan. If returning zero, the scan request is given
    the driver, and will be valid until passed to [`cfg80211_scan_done()`](#c.cfg80211_scan_done "cfg80211_scan_done").
    For scan results, call [`cfg80211_inform_bss()`](#c.cfg80211_inform_bss "cfg80211_inform_bss"); you can call this outside
    the scan/scan\_done bracket too.

`abort_scan`
:   Tell the driver to abort an ongoing scan. The driver shall
    indicate the status of the scan through [`cfg80211_scan_done()`](#c.cfg80211_scan_done "cfg80211_scan_done").

`auth`
:   Request to authenticate with the specified peer
    (invoked with the wireless\_dev mutex held)

`assoc`
:   Request to (re)associate with the specified peer
    (invoked with the wireless\_dev mutex held)

`deauth`
:   Request to deauthenticate from the specified peer
    (invoked with the wireless\_dev mutex held)

`disassoc`
:   Request to disassociate from the specified peer
    (invoked with the wireless\_dev mutex held)

`connect`
:   Connect to the ESS with the specified parameters. When connected,
    call [`cfg80211_connect_result()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_result "cfg80211_connect_result")/[`cfg80211_connect_bss()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_bss "cfg80211_connect_bss") with status code
    `WLAN_STATUS_SUCCESS`. If the connection fails for some reason, call
    [`cfg80211_connect_result()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_result "cfg80211_connect_result")/[`cfg80211_connect_bss()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_bss "cfg80211_connect_bss") with the status code
    from the AP or [`cfg80211_connect_timeout()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_timeout "cfg80211_connect_timeout") if no frame with status code
    was received.
    The driver is allowed to roam to other BSSes within the ESS when the
    other BSS matches the connect parameters. When such roaming is initiated
    by the driver, the driver is expected to verify that the target matches
    the configured security parameters and to use Reassociation Request
    frame instead of Association Request frame.
    The connect function can also be used to request the driver to perform a
    specific roam when connected to an ESS. In that case, the prev\_bssid
    parameter is set to the BSSID of the currently associated BSS as an
    indication of requesting reassociation.
    In both the driver-initiated and new `connect()` call initiated roaming
    cases, the result of roaming is indicated with a call to
    [`cfg80211_roamed()`](#c.cfg80211_roamed "cfg80211_roamed"). (invoked with the wireless\_dev mutex held)

`update_connect_params`
:   Update the connect parameters while connected to a
    BSS. The updated parameters can be used by driver/firmware for
    subsequent BSS selection (roaming) decisions and to form the
    Authentication/(Re)Association Request frames. This call does not
    request an immediate disassociation or reassociation with the current
    BSS, i.e., this impacts only subsequent (re)associations. The bits in
    changed are defined in `enum cfg80211_connect_params_changed`.
    (invoked with the wireless\_dev mutex held)

`disconnect`
:   Disconnect from the BSS/ESS or stop connection attempts if
    connection is in progress. Once done, call [`cfg80211_disconnected()`](#c.cfg80211_disconnected "cfg80211_disconnected") in
    case connection was already established (invoked with the
    wireless\_dev mutex held), otherwise call [`cfg80211_connect_timeout()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_timeout "cfg80211_connect_timeout").

`join_ibss`
:   Join the specified IBSS (or create if necessary). Once done, call
    [`cfg80211_ibss_joined()`](#c.cfg80211_ibss_joined "cfg80211_ibss_joined"), also call that function when changing BSSID due
    to a merge.
    (invoked with the wireless\_dev mutex held)

`leave_ibss`
:   Leave the IBSS.
    (invoked with the wireless\_dev mutex held)

`set_mcast_rate`
:   Set the specified multicast rate (only if vif is in ADHOC or
    MESH mode)

`set_wiphy_params`
:   Notify that wiphy parameters have changed;
    **changed** bitfield (see [`enum wiphy_params_flags`](#c.wiphy_params_flags "wiphy_params_flags")) describes which values
    have changed. The actual parameter values are available in
    [`struct wiphy`](#c.wiphy "wiphy"). If returning an error, no value should be changed.

`set_tx_power`
:   set the transmit power according to the parameters,
    the power passed is in mBm, to get dBm use `MBM_TO_DBM()`. The
    wdev may be `NULL` if power was set for the wiphy, and will
    always be `NULL` unless the driver supports per-vif TX power
    (as advertised by the nl80211 feature flag.)

`get_tx_power`
:   store the current TX power into the dbm variable;
    return 0 if successful

`rfkill_poll`
:   polls the hw rfkill line, use cfg80211 reporting
    functions to adjust rfkill hw state

`testmode_cmd`
:   run a test mode command; **wdev** may be `NULL`

`testmode_dump`
:   Implement a test mode dump. The cb->args[2] and up may be
    used by the function, but 0 and 1 must not be touched. Additionally,
    return error codes other than -ENOBUFS and -ENOENT will terminate the
    dump and return to userspace with an error, so be careful. If any data
    was passed in from userspace then the data/len arguments will be present
    and point to the data contained in `NL80211_ATTR_TESTDATA`.

`set_bitrate_mask`
:   set the bitrate mask configuration

`dump_survey`
:   get site survey information.

`set_pmksa`
:   Cache a PMKID for a BSSID. This is mostly useful for fullmac
    devices running firmwares capable of generating the (re) association
    RSN IE. It allows for faster roaming between WPA2 BSSIDs.

`del_pmksa`
:   Delete a cached PMKID.

`flush_pmksa`
:   Flush all cached PMKIDs.

`remain_on_channel`
:   Request the driver to remain awake on the specified
    channel for the specified duration to complete an off-channel
    operation (e.g., public action frame exchange). When the driver is
    ready on the requested channel, it must indicate this with an event
    notification by calling [`cfg80211_ready_on_channel()`](#c.cfg80211_ready_on_channel "cfg80211_ready_on_channel").

`cancel_remain_on_channel`
:   Cancel an on-going remain-on-channel operation.
    This allows the operation to be terminated prior to timeout based on
    the duration value.

`mgmt_tx`
:   Transmit a management frame.

`mgmt_tx_cancel_wait`
:   Cancel the wait time from transmitting a management
    frame on another channel

`set_power_mgmt`
:   Configure WLAN power management. A timeout value of -1
    allows the driver to adjust the dynamic ps timeout value.

`set_cqm_rssi_config`
:   Configure connection quality monitor RSSI threshold.
    After configuration, the driver should (soon) send an event indicating
    the current level is above/below the configured threshold; this may
    need some care when the configuration is changed (without first being
    disabled.)

`set_cqm_rssi_range_config`
:   Configure two RSSI thresholds in the
    connection quality monitor. An event is to be sent only when the
    signal level is found to be outside the two values. The driver should
    set `NL80211_EXT_FEATURE_CQM_RSSI_LIST` if this method is implemented.
    If it is provided then there’s no point providing **set\_cqm\_rssi\_config**.

`set_cqm_txe_config`
:   Configure connection quality monitor TX error
    thresholds.

`update_mgmt_frame_registrations`
:   Notify the driver that management frame
    registrations were updated. The callback is allowed to sleep.

`set_antenna`
:   Set antenna configuration (tx\_ant, rx\_ant) on the device.
    Parameters are bitmaps of allowed antennas to use for TX/RX. Drivers may
    reject TX/RX mask combinations they cannot support by returning -EINVAL
    (also see nl80211.h **NL80211\_ATTR\_WIPHY\_ANTENNA\_TX**).

`get_antenna`
:   Get current antenna configuration from device (tx\_ant, rx\_ant).

`sched_scan_start`
:   Tell the driver to start a scheduled scan.

`sched_scan_stop`
:   Tell the driver to stop an ongoing scheduled scan with
    given request id. This call must stop the scheduled scan and be ready
    for starting a new one before it returns, i.e. **sched\_scan\_start** may be
    called immediately after that again and should not fail in that case.
    The driver should not call `cfg80211_sched_scan_stopped()` for a requested
    stop (when this method returns 0).

`set_rekey_data`
:   give the data necessary for GTK rekeying to the driver

`tdls_mgmt`
:   Transmit a TDLS management frame.

`tdls_oper`
:   Perform a high-level TDLS operation (e.g. TDLS link setup).

`probe_client`
:   probe an associated client, must return a cookie that it
    later passes to `cfg80211_probe_status()`.

`set_noack_map`
:   Set the NoAck Map for the TIDs.

`get_channel`
:   Get the current operating channel for the virtual interface.
    For monitor interfaces, it should return `NULL` unless there’s a single
    current monitoring channel.

`start_p2p_device`
:   Start the given P2P device.

`stop_p2p_device`
:   Stop the given P2P device.

`set_mac_acl`
:   Sets MAC address control list in AP and P2P GO mode.
    Parameters include ACL policy, an array of MAC address of stations
    and the number of MAC addresses. If there is already a list in driver
    this new list replaces the existing one. Driver has to clear its ACL
    when number of MAC addresses entries is passed as 0. Drivers which
    advertise the support for MAC based ACL have to implement this callback.

`start_radar_detection`
:   Start radar detection in the driver.

`end_cac`
:   End running CAC, probably because a related CAC
    was finished on another phy.

`update_ft_ies`
:   Provide updated Fast BSS Transition information to the
    driver. If the SME is in the driver/firmware, this information can be
    used in building Authentication and Reassociation Request frames.

`crit_proto_start`
:   Indicates a critical protocol needs more link reliability
    for a given duration (milliseconds). The protocol is provided so the
    driver can take the most appropriate actions.

`crit_proto_stop`
:   Indicates critical protocol no longer needs increased link
    reliability. This operation can not fail.

`set_coalesce`
:   Set coalesce parameters.

`channel_switch`
:   initiate channel-switch procedure (with CSA). Driver is
    responsible for veryfing if the switch is possible. Since this is
    inherently tricky driver may decide to disconnect an interface later
    with `cfg80211_stop_iface()`. This doesn’t mean driver can accept
    everything. It should do it’s best to verify requests and reject them
    as soon as possible.

`set_qos_map`
:   Set QoS mapping information to the driver

`set_ap_chanwidth`
:   Set the AP (including P2P GO) mode channel width for the
    given interface This is used e.g. for dynamic HT 20/40 MHz channel width
    changes during the lifetime of the BSS.

`add_tx_ts`
:   validate (if admitted\_time is 0) or add a TX TS to the device
    with the given parameters; action frame exchange has been handled by
    userspace so this just has to modify the TX path to take the TS into
    account.
    If the admitted time is 0 just validate the parameters to make sure
    the session can be created at all; it is valid to just always return
    success for that but that may result in inefficient behaviour (handshake
    with the peer followed by immediate teardown when the addition is later
    rejected)

`del_tx_ts`
:   remove an existing TX TS

`tdls_channel_switch`
:   Start channel-switching with a TDLS peer. The driver
    is responsible for continually initiating channel-switching operations
    and returning to the base channel for communication with the AP.

`tdls_cancel_channel_switch`
:   Stop channel-switching with a TDLS peer. Both
    peers must be on the base channel when the call completes.

`start_nan`
:   Start the NAN interface.

`stop_nan`
:   Stop the NAN interface.

`add_nan_func`
:   Add a NAN function. Returns negative value on failure.
    On success **nan\_func** ownership is transferred to the driver and
    it may access it outside of the scope of this function. The driver
    should free the **nan\_func** when no longer needed by calling
    `cfg80211_free_nan_func()`.
    On success the driver should assign an instance\_id in the
    provided **nan\_func**.

`del_nan_func`
:   Delete a NAN function.

`nan_change_conf`
:   changes NAN configuration. The changed parameters must
    be specified in **changes** (using `enum cfg80211_nan_conf_changes`);
    All other parameters must be ignored.

`nan_set_local_sched`
:   configure the local schedule for NAN. The schedule
    consists of an array of `cfg80211_nan_channel` and the schedule itself,
    in which each entry maps each time slot to the channel on which the
    radio should operate on. If the chandef of a NAN channel is not
    changed, the channel entry must also remain unchanged. It is the
    driver’s responsibility to verify this.

`nan_set_peer_sched`
:   configure the peer schedule for NAN. The schedule
    consists of an array of `cfg80211_nan_channel` and the schedule itself,
    in which each entry maps each time slot to a channel on which the
    radio should operate on. In addition, it contains more peer’s schedule
    information such as committed DW, etc. When updating an existing peer
    schedule, the full new schedule is provided - partial updates are not
    supported, and the new schedule completely replaces the previous one.

`set_multicast_to_unicast`
:   configure multicast to unicast conversion for BSS

`get_txq_stats`
:   Get TXQ stats for interface or phy. If wdev is `NULL`, this
    function should return phy stats, and interface stats otherwise.

`set_pmk`
:   configure the PMK to be used for offloaded 802.1X 4-Way handshake.
    If not deleted through **del\_pmk** the PMK remains valid until disconnect
    upon which the driver should clear it.
    (invoked with the wireless\_dev mutex held)

`del_pmk`
:   delete the previously configured PMK for the given authenticator.
    (invoked with the wireless\_dev mutex held)

`external_auth`
:   indicates result of offloaded authentication processing from
    user space

`tx_control_port`
:   TX a control port frame (EAPoL). The noencrypt parameter
    tells the driver that the frame should not be encrypted.

`get_ftm_responder_stats`
:   Retrieve FTM responder statistics, if available.
    Statistics should be cumulative, currently no way to reset is provided.

`start_pmsr`
:   start peer measurement (e.g. FTM)

`abort_pmsr`
:   abort peer measurement

`update_owe_info`
:   Provide updated OWE info to driver. Driver implementing SME
    but offloading OWE processing to the user space will get the updated
    DH IE through this interface.

`probe_mesh_link`
:   Probe direct Mesh peer’s link quality by sending data frame
    and overrule HWMP path selection algorithm.

`set_tid_config`
:   TID specific configuration, this can be peer or BSS specific
    This callback may sleep.

`reset_tid_config`
:   Reset TID specific configuration for the peer, for the
    given TIDs. This callback may sleep.

`set_sar_specs`
:   Update the SAR (TX power) settings.

`color_change`
:   Initiate a color change.

`set_fils_aad`
:   Set FILS AAD data to the AP driver so that the driver can use
    those to decrypt (Re)Association Request and encrypt (Re)Association
    Response frame.

`set_radar_background`
:   Configure dedicated offchannel chain available for
    radar/CAC detection on some hw. This chain can’t be used to transmit
    or receive frames and it is bounded to a running wdev.
    Background radar/CAC detection allows to avoid the CAC downtime
    switching to a different channel during CAC detection on the selected
    radar channel.
    The caller is expected to set chandef pointer to NULL in order to
    disable background CAC/radar detection.

`add_link_station`
:   Add a link to a station.

`mod_link_station`
:   Modify a link of a station.

`del_link_station`
:   Remove a link of a station.

`set_hw_timestamp`
:   Enable/disable HW timestamping of TM/FTM frames.

`set_ttlm`
:   set the TID to link mapping.

`get_radio_mask`
:   get bitmask of radios in use.
    (invoked with the wiphy mutex held)

`assoc_ml_reconf`
:   Request a non-AP MLO connection to perform ML
    reconfiguration, i.e., add and/or remove links to/from the
    association using ML reconfiguration action frames. Successfully added
    links will be added to the set of valid links. Successfully removed
    links will be removed from the set of valid links. The driver must
    indicate removed links by calling `cfg80211_links_removed()` and added
    links by calling `cfg80211_mlo_reconf_add_done()`. When calling
    `cfg80211_mlo_reconf_add_done()` the bss pointer must be given for each
    link for which MLO reconfiguration ‘add’ operation was requested.

`set_epcs`
:   Enable/Disable EPCS for station mode.

**Description**

This `struct is` registered by fullmac card drivers and/or wireless stacks
in order to handle configuration requests on their interfaces.

All callbacks except where otherwise noted should return 0
on success or a negative error code.

All operations are invoked with the wiphy mutex held. The RTNL may be
held in addition (due to wireless extensions) but this cannot be relied
upon except in cases where documented below. Note that due to ordering,
the RTNL also cannot be acquired in any handlers.

void cfg80211\_rx\_mlme\_mgmt(struct [net\_device](../../networking/kapi.html#c.net_device "net_device") \*dev, const u8 \*buf, size\_t len)
:   notification of processed MLME management frame

**Parameters**

`struct net_device *dev`
:   network device

`const u8 *buf`
:   authentication frame (header + body)

`size_t len`
:   length of the frame data

**Description**

This function is called whenever an authentication, disassociation or
deauthentication frame has been received and processed in station mode.
After being asked to authenticate via cfg80211\_ops::`auth()` the driver must
call either this function or [`cfg80211_auth_timeout()`](#c.cfg80211_auth_timeout "cfg80211_auth_timeout").
After being asked to associate via cfg80211\_ops::`assoc()` the driver must
call either this function or [`cfg80211_auth_timeout()`](#c.cfg80211_auth_timeout "cfg80211_auth_timeout").
While connected, the driver must calls this for received and processed
disassociation and deauthentication frames. If the frame couldn’t be used
because it was unprotected, the driver must call the function
`cfg80211_rx_unprot_mlme_mgmt()` instead.

This function may sleep. The caller must hold the corresponding wdev’s mutex.

void cfg80211\_auth\_timeout(struct [net\_device](../../networking/kapi.html#c.net_device "net_device") \*dev, const u8 \*addr)
:   notification of timed out authentication

**Parameters**

`struct net_device *dev`
:   network device

`const u8 *addr`
:   The MAC address of the device with which the authentication timed out

**Description**

This function may sleep. The caller must hold the corresponding wdev’s
mutex.

void cfg80211\_rx\_assoc\_resp(struct [net\_device](../../networking/kapi.html#c.net_device "net_device") \*dev, const struct cfg80211\_rx\_assoc\_resp\_data \*data)
:   notification of processed association response

**Parameters**

`struct net_device *dev`
:   network device

`const struct cfg80211_rx_assoc_resp_data *data`
:   association response data, `struct cfg80211_rx_assoc_resp_data`

**Description**

After being asked to associate via cfg80211\_ops::`assoc()` the driver must
call either this function or [`cfg80211_auth_timeout()`](#c.cfg80211_auth_timeout "cfg80211_auth_timeout").

This function may sleep. The caller must hold the corresponding wdev’s mutex.

void cfg80211\_tx\_mlme\_mgmt(struct [net\_device](../../networking/kapi.html#c.net_device "net_device") \*dev, const u8 \*buf, size\_t len, bool reconnect)
:   notification of transmitted deauth/disassoc frame

**Parameters**

`struct net_device *dev`
:   network device

`const u8 *buf`
:   802.11 frame (header + body)

`size_t len`
:   length of the frame data

`bool reconnect`
:   immediate reconnect is desired (include the nl80211 attribute)

**Description**

This function is called whenever deauthentication has been processed in
station mode. This includes both received deauthentication frames and
locally generated ones. This function may sleep. The caller must hold the
corresponding wdev’s mutex.

void cfg80211\_michael\_mic\_failure(struct [net\_device](../../networking/kapi.html#c.net_device "net_device") \*dev, const u8 \*addr, enum nl80211\_key\_type key\_type, int key\_id, const u8 \*tsc, gfp\_t gfp)
:   notification of Michael MIC failure (TKIP)

**Parameters**

`struct net_device *dev`
:   network device

`const u8 *addr`
:   The source MAC address of the frame

`enum nl80211_key_type key_type`
:   The key type that the received frame used

`int key_id`
:   Key identifier (0..3). Can be -1 if missing.

`const u8 *tsc`
:   The TSC value of the frame that generated the MIC failure (6 octets)

`gfp_t gfp`
:   allocation flags

**Description**

This function is called whenever the local MAC detects a MIC failure in a
received frame. This matches with MLME-MICHAELMICFAILURE.`indication()`
primitive.

void cfg80211\_ibss\_joined(struct [net\_device](../../networking/kapi.html#c.net_device "net_device") \*dev, const u8 \*bssid, struct [ieee80211\_channel](#c.ieee80211_channel "ieee80211_channel") \*channel, gfp\_t gfp)
:   notify cfg80211 that device joined an IBSS

**Parameters**

`struct net_device *dev`
:   network device

`const u8 *bssid`
:   the BSSID of the IBSS joined

`struct ieee80211_channel *channel`
:   the channel of the IBSS joined

`gfp_t gfp`
:   allocation flags

**Description**

This function notifies cfg80211 that the device joined an IBSS or
switched to a different BSSID. Before this function can be called,
either a beacon has to have been received from the IBSS, or one of
the cfg80211\_inform\_bss{,\_frame} functions must have been called
with the locally generated beacon -- this guarantees that there is
always a scan result for this IBSS. cfg80211 will handle the rest.

struct cfg80211\_connect\_resp\_params
:   Connection response params

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_connect_resp_params {
    int status;
    const u8 *req_ie;
    size_t req_ie_len;
    const u8 *resp_ie;
    size_t resp_ie_len;
    struct cfg80211_fils_resp_params fils;
    enum nl80211_timeout_reason timeout_reason;
    const u8 *ap_mld_addr;
    u16 valid_links;
    struct {
        const u8 *addr;
        const u8 *bssid;
        struct cfg80211_bss *bss;
        u16 status;
    } links[IEEE80211_MLD_MAX_NUM_LINKS];
};
```

**Members**

`status`
:   Status code, `WLAN_STATUS_SUCCESS` for successful connection, use
    `WLAN_STATUS_UNSPECIFIED_FAILURE` if your device cannot give you
    the real status code for failures. If this call is used to report a
    failure due to a timeout (e.g., not receiving an Authentication frame
    from the AP) instead of an explicit rejection by the AP, -1 is used to
    indicate that this is a failure, but without a status code.
    **timeout\_reason** is used to report the reason for the timeout in that
    case.

`req_ie`
:   Association request IEs (may be `NULL`)

`req_ie_len`
:   Association request IEs length

`resp_ie`
:   Association response IEs (may be `NULL`)

`resp_ie_len`
:   Association response IEs length

`fils`
:   FILS connection response parameters.

`timeout_reason`
:   Reason for connection timeout. This is used when the
    connection fails due to a timeout instead of an explicit rejection from
    the AP. `NL80211_TIMEOUT_UNSPECIFIED` is used when the timeout reason is
    not known. This value is used only if **status** < 0 to indicate that the
    failure is due to a timeout and not due to explicit rejection by the AP.
    This value is ignored in other cases (**status** >= 0).

`ap_mld_addr`
:   For MLO connection, MLD address of the AP. Otherwise `NULL`.

`valid_links`
:   For MLO connection, BIT mask of the valid link ids. Otherwise
    zero.

`links`
:   For MLO connection, contains link info for the valid links indicated
    using **valid\_links**. For non-MLO connection, links[0] contains the
    connected AP info.

`links.addr`
:   For MLO connection, MAC address of the STA link. Otherwise
    `NULL`.

`links.bssid`
:   For MLO connection, MAC address of the AP link. For non-MLO
    connection, links[0].bssid points to the BSSID of the AP (may be `NULL`).

`links.bss`
:   For MLO connection, entry of bss to which STA link is connected.
    For non-MLO connection, links[0].bss points to entry of bss to which STA
    is connected. It can be obtained through `cfg80211_get_bss()` (may be
    `NULL`). It is recommended to store the bss from the connect\_request and
    hold a reference to it and return through this param to avoid a warning
    if the bss is expired during the connection, esp. for those drivers
    implementing connect op. Only one parameter among **bssid** and **bss** needs
    to be specified.

`links.status`
:   per-link status code, to report a status code that’s not
    `WLAN_STATUS_SUCCESS` for a given link, it must also be in the
    **valid\_links** bitmap and may have a BSS pointer (which is then released)

void cfg80211\_connect\_done(struct [net\_device](../../networking/kapi.html#c.net_device "net_device") \*dev, struct [cfg80211\_connect\_resp\_params](#c.cfg80211_connect_resp_params "cfg80211_connect_resp_params") \*params, gfp\_t gfp)
:   notify cfg80211 of connection result

**Parameters**

`struct net_device *dev`
:   network device

`struct cfg80211_connect_resp_params *params`
:   connection response parameters

`gfp_t gfp`
:   allocation flags

**Description**

It should be called by the underlying driver once execution of the connection
request from `connect()` has been completed. This is similar to
[`cfg80211_connect_bss()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_bss "cfg80211_connect_bss"), but takes a structure pointer for connection response
parameters. Only one of the functions among [`cfg80211_connect_bss()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_bss "cfg80211_connect_bss"),
[`cfg80211_connect_result()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_result "cfg80211_connect_result"), [`cfg80211_connect_timeout()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_timeout "cfg80211_connect_timeout"),
and [`cfg80211_connect_done()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_done "cfg80211_connect_done") should be called.

void cfg80211\_connect\_bss(struct [net\_device](../../networking/kapi.html#c.net_device "net_device") \*dev, const u8 \*bssid, struct [cfg80211\_bss](#c.cfg80211_bss "cfg80211_bss") \*bss, const u8 \*req\_ie, size\_t req\_ie\_len, const u8 \*resp\_ie, size\_t resp\_ie\_len, int status, gfp\_t gfp, enum nl80211\_timeout\_reason timeout\_reason)
:   notify cfg80211 of connection result

**Parameters**

`struct net_device *dev`
:   network device

`const u8 *bssid`
:   the BSSID of the AP

`struct cfg80211_bss *bss`
:   Entry of bss to which STA got connected to, can be obtained through
    `cfg80211_get_bss()` (may be `NULL`). But it is recommended to store the
    bss from the connect\_request and hold a reference to it and return
    through this param to avoid a warning if the bss is expired during the
    connection, esp. for those drivers implementing connect op.
    Only one parameter among **bssid** and **bss** needs to be specified.

`const u8 *req_ie`
:   association request IEs (maybe be `NULL`)

`size_t req_ie_len`
:   association request IEs length

`const u8 *resp_ie`
:   association response IEs (may be `NULL`)

`size_t resp_ie_len`
:   assoc response IEs length

`int status`
:   status code, `WLAN_STATUS_SUCCESS` for successful connection, use
    `WLAN_STATUS_UNSPECIFIED_FAILURE` if your device cannot give you
    the real status code for failures. If this call is used to report a
    failure due to a timeout (e.g., not receiving an Authentication frame
    from the AP) instead of an explicit rejection by the AP, -1 is used to
    indicate that this is a failure, but without a status code.
    **timeout\_reason** is used to report the reason for the timeout in that
    case.

`gfp_t gfp`
:   allocation flags

`enum nl80211_timeout_reason timeout_reason`
:   reason for connection timeout. This is used when the
    connection fails due to a timeout instead of an explicit rejection from
    the AP. `NL80211_TIMEOUT_UNSPECIFIED` is used when the timeout reason is
    not known. This value is used only if **status** < 0 to indicate that the
    failure is due to a timeout and not due to explicit rejection by the AP.
    This value is ignored in other cases (**status** >= 0).

**Description**

It should be called by the underlying driver once execution of the connection
request from `connect()` has been completed. This is similar to
[`cfg80211_connect_result()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_result "cfg80211_connect_result"), but with the option of identifying the exact bss
entry for the connection. Only one of the functions among
[`cfg80211_connect_bss()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_bss "cfg80211_connect_bss"), [`cfg80211_connect_result()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_result "cfg80211_connect_result"),
[`cfg80211_connect_timeout()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_timeout "cfg80211_connect_timeout"), and [`cfg80211_connect_done()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_done "cfg80211_connect_done") should be called.

void cfg80211\_connect\_result(struct [net\_device](../../networking/kapi.html#c.net_device "net_device") \*dev, const u8 \*bssid, const u8 \*req\_ie, size\_t req\_ie\_len, const u8 \*resp\_ie, size\_t resp\_ie\_len, u16 status, gfp\_t gfp)
:   notify cfg80211 of connection result

**Parameters**

`struct net_device *dev`
:   network device

`const u8 *bssid`
:   the BSSID of the AP

`const u8 *req_ie`
:   association request IEs (maybe be `NULL`)

`size_t req_ie_len`
:   association request IEs length

`const u8 *resp_ie`
:   association response IEs (may be `NULL`)

`size_t resp_ie_len`
:   assoc response IEs length

`u16 status`
:   status code, `WLAN_STATUS_SUCCESS` for successful connection, use
    `WLAN_STATUS_UNSPECIFIED_FAILURE` if your device cannot give you
    the real status code for failures.

`gfp_t gfp`
:   allocation flags

**Description**

It should be called by the underlying driver once execution of the connection
request from `connect()` has been completed. This is similar to
[`cfg80211_connect_bss()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_bss "cfg80211_connect_bss") which allows the exact bss entry to be specified. Only
one of the functions among [`cfg80211_connect_bss()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_bss "cfg80211_connect_bss"), [`cfg80211_connect_result()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_result "cfg80211_connect_result"),
[`cfg80211_connect_timeout()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_timeout "cfg80211_connect_timeout"), and [`cfg80211_connect_done()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_done "cfg80211_connect_done") should be called.

void cfg80211\_connect\_timeout(struct [net\_device](../../networking/kapi.html#c.net_device "net_device") \*dev, const u8 \*bssid, const u8 \*req\_ie, size\_t req\_ie\_len, gfp\_t gfp, enum nl80211\_timeout\_reason timeout\_reason)
:   notify cfg80211 of connection timeout

**Parameters**

`struct net_device *dev`
:   network device

`const u8 *bssid`
:   the BSSID of the AP

`const u8 *req_ie`
:   association request IEs (maybe be `NULL`)

`size_t req_ie_len`
:   association request IEs length

`gfp_t gfp`
:   allocation flags

`enum nl80211_timeout_reason timeout_reason`
:   reason for connection timeout.

**Description**

It should be called by the underlying driver whenever `connect()` has failed
in a sequence where no explicit authentication/association rejection was
received from the AP. This could happen, e.g., due to not being able to send
out the Authentication or Association Request frame or timing out while
waiting for the response. Only one of the functions among
[`cfg80211_connect_bss()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_bss "cfg80211_connect_bss"), [`cfg80211_connect_result()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_result "cfg80211_connect_result"),
[`cfg80211_connect_timeout()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_timeout "cfg80211_connect_timeout"), and [`cfg80211_connect_done()`](#c.cfg80211_connect_done "cfg80211_connect_done") should be called.

void cfg80211\_roamed(struct [net\_device](../../networking/kapi.html#c.net_device "net_device") \*dev, struct cfg80211\_roam\_info \*info, gfp\_t gfp)
:   notify cfg80211 of roaming

**Parameters**

`struct net_device *dev`
:   network device

`struct cfg80211_roam_info *info`
:   information about the new BSS. struct `cfg80211_roam_info`.

`gfp_t gfp`
:   allocation flags

**Description**

This function may be called with the driver passing either the BSSID of the
new AP or passing the bss entry to avoid a race in timeout of the bss entry.
It should be called by the underlying driver whenever it roamed from one AP
to another while connected. Drivers which have roaming implemented in
firmware should pass the bss entry to avoid a race in bss entry timeout where
the bss entry of the new AP is seen in the driver, but gets timed out by the
time it is accessed in `__cfg80211_roamed()` due to delay in scheduling
rdev->event\_work. In case of any failures, the reference is released
either in [`cfg80211_roamed()`](#c.cfg80211_roamed "cfg80211_roamed") or in `__cfg80211_romed()`, Otherwise, it will be
released while disconnecting from the current bss.

void cfg80211\_disconnected(struct [net\_device](../../networking/kapi.html#c.net_device "net_device") \*dev, u16 reason, const u8 \*ie, size\_t ie\_len, bool locally\_generated, gfp\_t gfp)
:   notify cfg80211 that connection was dropped

**Parameters**

`struct net_device *dev`
:   network device

`u16 reason`
:   reason code for the disconnection, set it to 0 if unknown

`const u8 *ie`
:   information elements of the deauth/disassoc frame (may be `NULL`)

`size_t ie_len`
:   length of IEs

`bool locally_generated`
:   disconnection was requested locally

`gfp_t gfp`
:   allocation flags

**Description**

After it calls this function, the driver should enter an idle state
and not try to connect to any AP any more.

void cfg80211\_ready\_on\_channel(struct [wireless\_dev](#c.wireless_dev "wireless_dev") \*wdev, u64 cookie, struct [ieee80211\_channel](#c.ieee80211_channel "ieee80211_channel") \*chan, unsigned int duration, gfp\_t gfp)
:   notification of remain\_on\_channel start

**Parameters**

`struct wireless_dev *wdev`
:   wireless device

`u64 cookie`
:   the request cookie

`struct ieee80211_channel *chan`
:   The current channel (from remain\_on\_channel request)

`unsigned int duration`
:   Duration in milliseconds that the driver intents to remain on the
    channel

`gfp_t gfp`
:   allocation flags

void cfg80211\_remain\_on\_channel\_expired(struct [wireless\_dev](#c.wireless_dev "wireless_dev") \*wdev, u64 cookie, struct [ieee80211\_channel](#c.ieee80211_channel "ieee80211_channel") \*chan, gfp\_t gfp)
:   remain\_on\_channel duration expired

**Parameters**

`struct wireless_dev *wdev`
:   wireless device

`u64 cookie`
:   the request cookie

`struct ieee80211_channel *chan`
:   The current channel (from remain\_on\_channel request)

`gfp_t gfp`
:   allocation flags

void cfg80211\_new\_sta(struct [wireless\_dev](#c.wireless_dev "wireless_dev") \*wdev, const u8 \*mac\_addr, struct [station\_info](#c.station_info "station_info") \*sinfo, gfp\_t gfp)
:   notify userspace about station

**Parameters**

`struct wireless_dev *wdev`
:   the wireless device

`const u8 *mac_addr`
:   the station’s address

`struct station_info *sinfo`
:   the station information

`gfp_t gfp`
:   allocation flags

bool cfg80211\_rx\_mgmt(struct [wireless\_dev](#c.wireless_dev "wireless_dev") \*wdev, int freq, int sig\_dbm, const u8 \*buf, size\_t len, u32 flags)
:   notification of received, unprocessed management frame

**Parameters**

`struct wireless_dev *wdev`
:   wireless device receiving the frame

`int freq`
:   Frequency on which the frame was received in MHz

`int sig_dbm`
:   signal strength in dBm, or 0 if unknown

`const u8 *buf`
:   Management frame (header + body)

`size_t len`
:   length of the frame data

`u32 flags`
:   flags, as defined in `enum nl80211_rxmgmt_flags`

**Description**

This function is called whenever an Action frame is received for a station
mode interface, but is not processed in kernel.

**Return**

`true` if a user space application has registered for this frame.
For action frames, that makes it responsible for rejecting unrecognized
action frames; `false` otherwise, in which case for action frames the
driver is responsible for rejecting the frame.

void cfg80211\_mgmt\_tx\_status(struct [wireless\_dev](#c.wireless_dev "wireless_dev") \*wdev, u64 cookie, const u8 \*buf, size\_t len, bool ack, gfp\_t gfp)
:   notification of TX status for management frame

**Parameters**

`struct wireless_dev *wdev`
:   wireless device receiving the frame

`u64 cookie`
:   Cookie returned by cfg80211\_ops::`mgmt_tx()`

`const u8 *buf`
:   Management frame (header + body)

`size_t len`
:   length of the frame data

`bool ack`
:   Whether frame was acknowledged

`gfp_t gfp`
:   context flags

**Description**

This function is called whenever a management frame was requested to be
transmitted with cfg80211\_ops::`mgmt_tx()` to report the TX status of the
transmission attempt.

void cfg80211\_cqm\_rssi\_notify(struct [net\_device](../../networking/kapi.html#c.net_device "net_device") \*dev, enum nl80211\_cqm\_rssi\_threshold\_event rssi\_event, s32 rssi\_level, gfp\_t gfp)
:   connection quality monitoring rssi event

**Parameters**

`struct net_device *dev`
:   network device

`enum nl80211_cqm_rssi_threshold_event rssi_event`
:   the triggered RSSI event

`s32 rssi_level`
:   new RSSI level value or 0 if not available

`gfp_t gfp`
:   context flags

**Description**

This function is called when a configured connection quality monitoring
rssi threshold reached event occurs.

void cfg80211\_cqm\_pktloss\_notify(struct [net\_device](../../networking/kapi.html#c.net_device "net_device") \*dev, const u8 \*peer, u32 num\_packets, gfp\_t gfp)
:   notify userspace about packetloss to peer

**Parameters**

`struct net_device *dev`
:   network device

`const u8 *peer`
:   peer’s MAC address

`u32 num_packets`
:   how many packets were lost -- should be a fixed threshold
    but probably no less than maybe 50, or maybe a throughput dependent
    threshold (to account for temporary interference)

`gfp_t gfp`
:   context flags

## Scanning and BSS list handling

The scanning process itself is fairly simple, but cfg80211 offers quite
a bit of helper functionality. To start a scan, the scan operation will
be invoked with a scan definition. This scan definition contains the
channels to scan, and the SSIDs to send probe requests for (including the
wildcard, if desired). A passive scan is indicated by having no SSIDs to
probe. Additionally, a scan request may contain extra information elements
that should be added to the probe request. The IEs are guaranteed to be
well-formed, and will not exceed the maximum length the driver advertised
in the wiphy structure.

When scanning finds a BSS, cfg80211 needs to be notified of that, because
it is responsible for maintaining the BSS list; the driver should not
maintain a list itself. For this notification, various functions exist.

Since drivers do not maintain a BSS list, there are also a number of
functions to search for a BSS and obtain information about it from the
BSS structure cfg80211 maintains. The BSS list is also made available
to userspace.

struct cfg80211\_ssid
:   SSID description

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_ssid {
    u8 ssid[IEEE80211_MAX_SSID_LEN];
    u8 ssid_len;
};
```

**Members**

`ssid`
:   the SSID

`ssid_len`
:   length of the ssid

struct cfg80211\_scan\_request
:   scan request description

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_scan_request {
    struct cfg80211_ssid *ssids;
    int n_ssids;
    u32 n_channels;
    const u8 *ie;
    size_t ie_len;
    u16 duration;
    bool duration_mandatory;
    u32 flags;
    u32 rates[NUM_NL80211_BANDS];
    struct wireless_dev *wdev;
    u8 mac_addr[ETH_ALEN];
    u8 mac_addr_mask[ETH_ALEN];
    u8 bssid[ETH_ALEN];
    struct wiphy *wiphy;
    unsigned long scan_start;
    bool no_cck;
    bool scan_6ghz;
    bool first_part;
    u32 n_6ghz_params;
    struct cfg80211_scan_6ghz_params *scan_6ghz_params;
    s8 tsf_report_link_id;
    struct ieee80211_channel *channels[];
};
```

**Members**

`ssids`
:   SSIDs to scan for (active scan only)

`n_ssids`
:   number of SSIDs

`n_channels`
:   total number of channels to scan

`ie`
:   optional information element(s) to add into Probe Request or `NULL`

`ie_len`
:   length of ie in octets

`duration`
:   how long to listen on each channel, in TUs. If
    `duration_mandatory` is not set, this is the maximum dwell time and
    the actual dwell time may be shorter.

`duration_mandatory`
:   if set, the scan duration must be as specified by the
    `duration` field.

`flags`
:   control flags from `enum nl80211_scan_flags`

`rates`
:   bitmap of rates to advertise for each band

`wdev`
:   the wireless device to scan for

`mac_addr`
:   MAC address used with randomisation

`mac_addr_mask`
:   MAC address mask used with randomisation, bits that
    are 0 in the mask should be randomised, bits that are 1 should
    be taken from the **mac\_addr**

`bssid`
:   BSSID to scan for (most commonly, the wildcard BSSID)

`wiphy`
:   the wiphy this was for

`scan_start`
:   time (in jiffies) when the scan started

`no_cck`
:   used to send probe requests at non CCK rate in 2GHz band

`scan_6ghz`
:   relevant for split scan request only,
    true if this is a 6 GHz scan request

`first_part`
:   `true` if this is the first part of a split scan request or a
    scan that was not split. May be `true` for a **scan\_6ghz** scan if no other
    channels were requested

`n_6ghz_params`
:   number of 6 GHz params

`scan_6ghz_params`
:   6 GHz params

`tsf_report_link_id`
:   for MLO, indicates the link ID of the BSS that should be
    used for TSF reporting. Can be set to -1 to indicate no preference.

`channels`
:   channels to scan on.

struct cfg80211\_inform\_bss
:   BSS inform data

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_inform_bss {
    struct ieee80211_channel *chan;
    s32 signal;
    u64 boottime_ns;
    u64 parent_tsf;
    u8 parent_bssid[ETH_ALEN];
    u8 chains;
    s8 chain_signal[IEEE80211_MAX_CHAINS];
    u8 restrict_use:1, use_for:7;
    u8 cannot_use_reasons;
    void *drv_data;
};
```

**Members**

`chan`
:   channel the frame was received on

`signal`
:   signal strength value, according to the wiphy’s
    signal type

`boottime_ns`
:   timestamp (CLOCK\_BOOTTIME) when the information was
    received; should match the time when the frame was actually
    received by the device (not just by the host, in case it was
    buffered on the device) and be accurate to about 10ms.
    If the frame isn’t buffered, just passing the return value of
    [`ktime_get_boottime_ns()`](../../core-api/timekeeping.html#c.ktime_get_boottime_ns "ktime_get_boottime_ns") is likely appropriate.

`parent_tsf`
:   the time at the start of reception of the first octet of the
    timestamp field of the frame. The time is the TSF of the BSS specified
    by `parent_bssid`.

`parent_bssid`
:   the BSS according to which `parent_tsf` is set. This is set to
    the BSS that requested the scan in which the beacon/probe was received.

`chains`
:   bitmask for filled values in **chain\_signal**.

`chain_signal`
:   per-chain signal strength of last received BSS in dBm.

`restrict_use`
:   restrict usage, if not set, assume **use\_for** is
    `NL80211_BSS_USE_FOR_NORMAL`.

`use_for`
:   bitmap of possible usage for this BSS, see
    `enum nl80211_bss_use_for`

`cannot_use_reasons`
:   the reasons (bitmap) for not being able to connect,
    if **restrict\_use** is set and **use\_for** is zero (empty); may be 0 for
    unspecified reasons; see `enum nl80211_bss_cannot_use_reasons`

`drv_data`
:   Data to be passed through to **inform\_bss**

struct cfg80211\_bss
:   BSS description

**Definition**:

```
struct cfg80211_bss {
    struct ieee80211_channel *channel;
    const struct cfg80211_bss_ies *ies;
    const struct cfg80211_bss_ies *beacon_ies;
    const struct cfg80211_bss_ies *proberesp_ies;
    struct cfg80211_bss *hidden_beacon_bss;
    struct cfg80211_bss *transmitted_bss;
    struct list_head nontrans_list;
    s32 signal;
    u64 ts_boottime;
    u16 beacon_interval;
    u16 capability;
    u8 bssid[ETH_ALEN];
    u8 chains;
    s8 chain_signal[IEEE80211_MAX_CHAINS];
    u8 proberesp_ecsa_stuck:1;
    u8 bssid_index;
    u8 max_bssid_indicator;
    u8 use_for;
    u8 cannot_use_reasons;
    u8 priv[];
};
```

**Members**

`channel`
:   channel this BSS is on

`ies`
:   the information elements (Note that there is no guarantee that these
    are well-formed!); this is a pointer to either the beacon\_ies or
    proberesp\_ies depending on whether Probe Response frame has been
    received. It is always non-`NULL`.

`beacon_ies`
:   the information elements from the last Beacon frame
    (implementation note: if **hidden\_beacon\_bss** is set this `struct doesn`’t
    own the beacon\_ies, but they’re just pointers to the ones from the
    **hidden\_beacon\_bss** struct)

`proberesp_ies`
:   the information elements from the last Probe Response frame

`hidden_beacon_bss`
:   in case this BSS `struct represents` a probe response from
    a BSS that hides the SSID in its beacon, this points to the BSS struct
    that holds the beacon data. **beacon\_ies** is still valid, of course, and
    points to the same data as hidden\_beacon\_bss->beacon\_ies in that case.

`transmitted_bss`
:   pointer to the transmitted BSS, if this is a
    non-transmitted one (multi-BSSID support)

`nontrans_list`
:   list of non-transmitted BSS, if this is a transmitted one
    (multi-BSSID support)

`signal`
:   signal strength value (type depends on the wiphy’s signal\_type)

`ts_boottime`
:   timestamp of the last BSS update in nanoseconds since boot

`beacon_interval`
:   the beacon interval as from the frame

`capability`
:   the capability field in host byte order

`bssid`
:   BSSID of the BSS

`chains`
:   bitmask for filled values in **chain\_signal**.

`chain_signal`
:   per-chain signal strength of last received BSS in dBm.

`proberesp_ecsa_stuck`
:   ECSA element is stuck in the Probe Response frame,
    cannot rely on it having valid data

`bssid_index`
:   index in the multiple BSS set

`max_bssid_indicator`
:   max number of members in the BSS set

`use_for`
:   bitmap of possible usage for this BSS, see
    `enum nl80211_bss_use_for`

`cannot_use_reasons`
:   the reasons (bitmap) for not being able to connect,
    if **restrict\_use** is set and **use\_for** is zero (empty); may be 0 for
    unspecified reasons; see `enum nl80211_bss_cannot_use_reasons`

`priv`
:   private area for driver use, has at least wiphy->bss\_priv\_size bytes

**Description**

This structure describes a BSS (which may also be a mesh network)
for use in scan results and similar.

const u8 \*ieee80211\_bss\_get\_ie(struct [cfg80211\_bss](#c.cfg80211_bss "cfg80211_bss") \*bss, u8 id)
:   find IE with given ID

**Parameters**

`struct cfg80211_bss *bss`
:   the bss to search

`u8 id`
:   the element ID

**Description**

Note that the return value is an RCU-protected pointer, so
[`rcu_read_lock()`](../../core-api/kernel-api.html#c.rcu_read_lock "rcu_read_lock") must be held when calling this function.

**Return**

`NULL` if not found.

const u8 \*cfg80211\_find\_ie(u8 eid, const u8 \*ies, int len)
:   find information element in data

**Parameters**

`u8 eid`
:   element ID

`const u8 *ies`
:   data consisting of IEs

`int len`
:   length of data

**Return**

`NULL` if the element ID could not be found or if
the element is invalid (claims to be longer than the given
data), or a pointer to the first byte of the requested
element, that is the byte containing the element ID.

**Note**

There are no checks on the element length other than
having to fit into the given data.

void cfg80211\_scan\_done(struct [cfg80211\_scan\_request](#c.cfg80211_scan_request "cfg80211_scan_request") \*request, struct cfg80211\_scan\_info \*info)
:   notify that scan finished

**Parameters**

`struct cfg80211_scan_request *request`
:   the corresponding scan request

`struct cfg80211_scan_info *info`
:   information about the completed scan

struct [cfg80211\_bss](#c.cfg80211_bss "cfg80211_bss") \*cfg80211\_inform\_bss\_frame\_data(struct [wiphy](#c.cfg80211_inform_bss_frame_data "wiphy") \*wiphy, struct [cfg80211\_inform\_bss](#c.cfg80211_inform_bss "cfg80211_inform_bss") \*data, struct ieee80211\_mgmt \*mgmt, size\_t len, gfp\_t gfp)
:   inform cfg80211 of a received BSS frame

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   the wiphy reporting the BSS

`struct cfg80211_inform_bss *data`
:   the BSS metadata

`struct ieee80211_mgmt *mgmt`
:   the management frame (probe response or beacon)

`size_t len`
:   length of the management frame

`gfp_t gfp`
:   context flags

**Description**

This informs cfg80211 that BSS information was found and
the BSS should be updated/added.

**Return**

A referenced struct, must be released with `cfg80211_put_bss()`!
Or `NULL` on error.

struct [cfg80211\_bss](#c.cfg80211_bss "cfg80211_bss") \*cfg80211\_inform\_bss\_data(struct [wiphy](#c.cfg80211_inform_bss_data "wiphy") \*wiphy, struct [cfg80211\_inform\_bss](#c.cfg80211_inform_bss "cfg80211_inform_bss") \*data, enum cfg80211\_bss\_frame\_type ftype, const u8 \*bssid, u64 tsf, u16 capability, u16 beacon\_interval, const u8 \*ie, size\_t ielen, gfp\_t gfp)
:   inform cfg80211 of a new BSS

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   the wiphy reporting the BSS

`struct cfg80211_inform_bss *data`
:   the BSS metadata

`enum cfg80211_bss_frame_type ftype`
:   frame type (if known)

`const u8 *bssid`
:   the BSSID of the BSS

`u64 tsf`
:   the TSF sent by the peer in the beacon/probe response (or 0)

`u16 capability`
:   the capability field sent by the peer

`u16 beacon_interval`
:   the beacon interval announced by the peer

`const u8 *ie`
:   additional IEs sent by the peer

`size_t ielen`
:   length of the additional IEs

`gfp_t gfp`
:   context flags

**Description**

This informs cfg80211 that BSS information was found and
the BSS should be updated/added.

**Return**

A referenced struct, must be released with `cfg80211_put_bss()`!
Or `NULL` on error.

void cfg80211\_unlink\_bss(struct [wiphy](#c.cfg80211_unlink_bss "wiphy") \*wiphy, struct [cfg80211\_bss](#c.cfg80211_bss "cfg80211_bss") \*bss)
:   unlink BSS from internal data structures

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   the wiphy

`struct cfg80211_bss *bss`
:   the bss to remove

**Description**

This function removes the given BSS from the internal data structures
thereby making it no longer show up in scan results etc. Use this
function when you detect a BSS is gone. Normally BSSes will also time
out, so it is not necessary to use this function at all.

## Utility functions

cfg80211 offers a number of utility functions that can be useful.

int ieee80211\_channel\_to\_frequency(int chan, enum nl80211\_band band)
:   convert channel number to frequency

**Parameters**

`int chan`
:   channel number

`enum nl80211_band band`
:   band, necessary due to channel number overlap

**Return**

The corresponding frequency (in MHz), or 0 if the conversion failed.

int ieee80211\_frequency\_to\_channel(int freq)
:   convert frequency to channel number

**Parameters**

`int freq`
:   center frequency in MHz

**Return**

The corresponding channel, or 0 if the conversion failed.

struct [ieee80211\_channel](#c.ieee80211_channel "ieee80211_channel") \*ieee80211\_get\_channel(struct [wiphy](#c.ieee80211_get_channel "wiphy") \*wiphy, int freq)
:   get channel `struct from` wiphy for specified frequency

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   the [`struct wiphy`](#c.wiphy "wiphy") to get the channel for

`int freq`
:   the center frequency (in MHz) of the channel

**Return**

The channel `struct from` **wiphy** at **freq**.

const struct [ieee80211\_rate](#c.ieee80211_rate "ieee80211_rate") \*ieee80211\_get\_response\_rate(struct [ieee80211\_supported\_band](#c.ieee80211_supported_band "ieee80211_supported_band") \*sband, u32 basic\_rates, int bitrate)
:   get basic rate for a given rate

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_supported_band *sband`
:   the band to look for rates in

`u32 basic_rates`
:   bitmap of basic rates

`int bitrate`
:   the bitrate for which to find the basic rate

**Return**

The basic rate corresponding to a given bitrate, that
is the next lower bitrate contained in the basic rate map,
which is, for this function, given as a bitmap of indices of
rates in the band’s bitrate table.

struct ieee80211\_radiotap\_iterator
:   tracks walk thru present radiotap args

**Definition**:

```
struct ieee80211_radiotap_iterator {
    struct ieee80211_radiotap_header *_rtheader;
    const struct ieee80211_radiotap_vendor_namespaces *_vns;
    const struct ieee80211_radiotap_namespace *current_namespace;
    unsigned char *_arg, *_next_ns_data;
    __le32 *_next_bitmap;
    unsigned char *this_arg;
    int this_arg_index;
    int this_arg_size;
    int is_radiotap_ns;
    int _max_length;
    int _arg_index;
    uint32_t _bitmap_shifter;
    int _reset_on_ext;
};
```

**Members**

`_rtheader`
:   pointer to the radiotap header we are walking through

`_vns`
:   vendor namespace definitions

`current_namespace`
:   pointer to the current namespace definition
    (or internally `NULL` if the current namespace is unknown)

`_arg`
:   next argument pointer

`_next_ns_data`
:   beginning of the next namespace’s data

`_next_bitmap`
:   internal pointer to next present u32

`this_arg`
:   pointer to current radiotap arg; it is valid after each
    call to `ieee80211_radiotap_iterator_next()` but also after
    `ieee80211_radiotap_iterator_init()` where it will point to
    the beginning of the actual data portion

`this_arg_index`
:   index of current arg, valid after each successful call
    to `ieee80211_radiotap_iterator_next()`

`this_arg_size`
:   length of the current arg, for convenience

`is_radiotap_ns`
:   indicates whether the current namespace is the default
    radiotap namespace or not

`_max_length`
:   length of radiotap header in cpu byte ordering

`_arg_index`
:   next argument index

`_bitmap_shifter`
:   internal shifter for curr u32 bitmap, b0 set == arg present

`_reset_on_ext`
:   internal; reset the arg index to 0 when going to the
    next bitmap word

**Description**

Describes the radiotap parser state. Fields prefixed with an underscore
must not be used by users of the parser, only by the parser internally.

unsigned int ieee80211\_get\_hdrlen\_from\_skb(const struct [sk\_buff](../../networking/kapi.html#c.sk_buff "sk_buff") \*skb)
:   get header length from data

**Parameters**

`const struct sk_buff *skb`
:   the frame

**Description**

Given an skb with a raw 802.11 header at the data pointer this function
returns the 802.11 header length.

**Return**

The 802.11 header length in bytes (not including encryption
headers). Or 0 if the data in the sk\_buff is too short to contain a valid
802.11 header.

unsigned int ieee80211\_hdrlen(\_\_le16 fc)
:   get header length in bytes from frame control

**Parameters**

`__le16 fc`
:   frame control field in little-endian format

**Return**

The header length in bytes.

## Data path helpers

In addition to generic utilities, cfg80211 also offers
functions that help implement the data path for devices
that do not do the 802.11/802.3 conversion on the device.

int ieee80211\_data\_to\_8023(struct [sk\_buff](../../networking/kapi.html#c.sk_buff "sk_buff") \*skb, const u8 \*addr, enum nl80211\_iftype iftype)
:   convert an 802.11 data frame to 802.3

**Parameters**

`struct sk_buff *skb`
:   the 802.11 data frame

`const u8 *addr`
:   the device MAC address

`enum nl80211_iftype iftype`
:   the virtual interface type

**Return**

0 on success. Non-zero on error.

void ieee80211\_amsdu\_to\_8023s(struct [sk\_buff](../../networking/kapi.html#c.sk_buff "sk_buff") \*skb, struct sk\_buff\_head \*list, const u8 \*addr, enum nl80211\_iftype iftype, const unsigned int extra\_headroom, const u8 \*check\_da, const u8 \*check\_sa, u8 mesh\_control)
:   decode an IEEE 802.11n A-MSDU frame

**Parameters**

`struct sk_buff *skb`
:   The input A-MSDU frame without any headers.

`struct sk_buff_head *list`
:   The output list of 802.3 frames. It must be allocated and
    initialized by the caller.

`const u8 *addr`
:   The device MAC address.

`enum nl80211_iftype iftype`
:   The device interface type.

`const unsigned int extra_headroom`
:   The hardware extra headroom for SKBs in the **list**.

`const u8 *check_da`
:   DA to check in the inner ethernet header, or NULL

`const u8 *check_sa`
:   SA to check in the inner ethernet header, or NULL

`u8 mesh_control`
:   see mesh\_hdr in ieee80211\_is\_valid\_amsdu

**Description**

Decode an IEEE 802.11 A-MSDU and convert it to a list of 802.3 frames.
The **list** will be empty if the decode fails. The **skb** must be fully
header-less before being passed in here; it is freed in this function.

unsigned int cfg80211\_classify8021d(struct [sk\_buff](../../networking/kapi.html#c.sk_buff "sk_buff") \*skb, struct cfg80211\_qos\_map \*qos\_map)
:   determine the 802.1p/1d tag for a data frame

**Parameters**

`struct sk_buff *skb`
:   the data frame

`struct cfg80211_qos_map *qos_map`
:   Interworking QoS mapping or `NULL` if not in use

**Return**

The 802.1p/1d tag.

## Regulatory enforcement infrastructure

TODO

int regulatory\_hint(struct [wiphy](#c.regulatory_hint "wiphy") \*wiphy, const char \*alpha2)
:   driver hint to the wireless core a regulatory domain

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   the wireless device giving the hint (used only for reporting
    conflicts)

`const char *alpha2`
:   the ISO/IEC 3166 alpha2 the driver claims its regulatory domain
    should be in. If **rd** is set this should be NULL. Note that if you
    set this to NULL you should still set rd->alpha2 to some accepted
    alpha2.

**Description**

Wireless drivers can use this function to hint to the wireless core
what it believes should be the current regulatory domain by
giving it an ISO/IEC 3166 alpha2 country code it knows its regulatory
domain should be in or by providing a completely build regulatory domain.
If the driver provides an ISO/IEC 3166 alpha2 userspace will be queried
for a regulatory domain structure for the respective country.

The wiphy must have been registered to cfg80211 prior to this call.
For cfg80211 drivers this means you must first use [`wiphy_register()`](#c.wiphy_register "wiphy_register"),
for mac80211 drivers you must first use [`ieee80211_register_hw()`](mac80211.html#c.ieee80211_register_hw "ieee80211_register_hw").

Drivers should check the return value, its possible you can get
an -ENOMEM.

**Return**

0 on success. -ENOMEM.

void wiphy\_apply\_custom\_regulatory(struct [wiphy](#c.wiphy_apply_custom_regulatory "wiphy") \*wiphy, const struct ieee80211\_regdomain \*regd)
:   apply a custom driver regulatory domain

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   the wireless device we want to process the regulatory domain on

`const struct ieee80211_regdomain *regd`
:   the custom regulatory domain to use for this wiphy

**Description**

Drivers can sometimes have custom regulatory domains which do not apply
to a specific country. Drivers can use this to apply such custom regulatory
domains. This routine must be called prior to wiphy registration. The
custom regulatory domain will be trusted completely and as such previous
default channel settings will be disregarded. If no rule is found for a
channel on the regulatory domain the channel will be disabled.
Drivers using this for a wiphy should also set the wiphy flag
REGULATORY\_CUSTOM\_REG or cfg80211 will set it for the wiphy
that called this helper.

const struct ieee80211\_reg\_rule \*freq\_reg\_info(struct [wiphy](#c.freq_reg_info "wiphy") \*wiphy, u32 center\_freq)
:   get regulatory information for the given frequency

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   the wiphy for which we want to process this rule for

`u32 center_freq`
:   Frequency in KHz for which we want regulatory information for

**Description**

Use this function to get the regulatory rule for a specific frequency on
a given wireless device. If the device has a specific regulatory domain
it wants to follow we respect that unless a country IE has been received
and processed already.

**Return**

A valid pointer, or, when an error occurs, for example if no rule
can be found, the return value is encoded using [`ERR_PTR()`](../../core-api/kernel-api.html#c.ERR_PTR "ERR_PTR"). Use [`IS_ERR()`](../../core-api/kernel-api.html#c.IS_ERR "IS_ERR") to
check and [`PTR_ERR()`](../../core-api/kernel-api.html#c.PTR_ERR "PTR_ERR") to obtain the numeric return value. The numeric return
value will be -ERANGE if we determine the given center\_freq does not even
have a regulatory rule for a frequency range in the center\_freq’s band.
See `freq_in_rule_band()` for our current definition of a band -- this is
purely subjective and right now it’s 802.11 specific.

## RFkill integration

RFkill integration in cfg80211 is almost invisible to drivers,
as cfg80211 automatically registers an rfkill instance for each
wireless device it knows about. Soft kill is also translated
into disconnecting and turning all interfaces off. Drivers are
expected to turn off the device when all interfaces are down.

However, devices may have a hard RFkill line, in which case they
also need to interact with the rfkill subsystem, via cfg80211.
They can do this with a few helper functions documented here.

void wiphy\_rfkill\_start\_polling(struct [wiphy](#c.wiphy_rfkill_start_polling "wiphy") \*wiphy)
:   start polling rfkill

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   the wiphy

void wiphy\_rfkill\_stop\_polling(struct [wiphy](#c.wiphy_rfkill_stop_polling "wiphy") \*wiphy)
:   stop polling rfkill

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   the wiphy

## Test mode

Test mode is a set of utility functions to allow drivers to
interact with driver-specific tools to aid, for instance,
factory programming.

This chapter describes how drivers interact with it. For more
information see the nl80211 book’s chapter on it.

struct [sk\_buff](../../networking/kapi.html#c.sk_buff "sk_buff") \*cfg80211\_testmode\_alloc\_reply\_skb(struct [wiphy](#c.cfg80211_testmode_alloc_reply_skb "wiphy") \*wiphy, int approxlen)
:   allocate testmode reply

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   the wiphy

`int approxlen`
:   an upper bound of the length of the data that will
    be put into the skb

**Description**

This function allocates and pre-fills an skb for a reply to
the testmode command. Since it is intended for a reply, calling
it outside of the **testmode\_cmd** operation is invalid.

The returned skb is pre-filled with the wiphy index and set up in
a way that any data that is put into the skb (with [`skb_put()`](../../networking/kapi.html#c.skb_put "skb_put"),
`nla_put()` or similar) will end up being within the
`NL80211_ATTR_TESTDATA` attribute, so all that needs to be done
with the skb is adding data for the corresponding userspace tool
which can then read that data out of the testdata attribute. You
must not modify the skb in any other way.

When done, call [`cfg80211_testmode_reply()`](#c.cfg80211_testmode_reply "cfg80211_testmode_reply") with the skb and return
its error code as the result of the **testmode\_cmd** operation.

**Return**

An allocated and pre-filled skb. `NULL` if any errors happen.

int cfg80211\_testmode\_reply(struct [sk\_buff](../../networking/kapi.html#c.sk_buff "sk_buff") \*skb)
:   send the reply skb

**Parameters**

`struct sk_buff *skb`
:   The skb, must have been allocated with
    [`cfg80211_testmode_alloc_reply_skb()`](#c.cfg80211_testmode_alloc_reply_skb "cfg80211_testmode_alloc_reply_skb")

**Description**

Since calling this function will usually be the last thing
before returning from the **testmode\_cmd** you should return
the error code. Note that this function consumes the skb
regardless of the return value.

**Return**

An error code or 0 on success.

struct [sk\_buff](../../networking/kapi.html#c.sk_buff "sk_buff") \*cfg80211\_testmode\_alloc\_event\_skb(struct [wiphy](#c.cfg80211_testmode_alloc_event_skb "wiphy") \*wiphy, int approxlen, gfp\_t gfp)
:   allocate testmode event

**Parameters**

`struct wiphy *wiphy`
:   the wiphy

`int approxlen`
:   an upper bound of the length of the data that will
    be put into the skb

`gfp_t gfp`
:   allocation flags

**Description**

This function allocates and pre-fills an skb for an event on the
testmode multicast group.

The returned skb is set up in the same way as with
[`cfg80211_testmode_alloc_reply_skb()`](#c.cfg80211_testmode_alloc_reply_skb "cfg80211_testmode_alloc_reply_skb") but prepared for an event. As
there, you should simply add data to it that will then end up in the
`NL80211_ATTR_TESTDATA` attribute. Again, you must not modify the skb
in any other way.

When done filling the skb, call [`cfg80211_testmode_event()`](#c.cfg80211_testmode_event "cfg80211_testmode_event") with the
skb to send the event.

**Return**

An allocated and pre-filled skb. `NULL` if any errors happen.

void cfg80211\_testmode\_event(struct [sk\_buff](../../networking/kapi.html#c.sk_buff "sk_buff") \*skb, gfp\_t gfp)
:   send the event

**Parameters**

`struct sk_buff *skb`
:   The skb, must have been allocated with
    [`cfg80211_testmode_alloc_event_skb()`](#c.cfg80211_testmode_alloc_event_skb "cfg80211_testmode_alloc_event_skb")

`gfp_t gfp`
:   allocation flags

**Description**

This function sends the given **skb**, which must have been allocated
by [`cfg80211_testmode_alloc_event_skb()`](#c.cfg80211_testmode_alloc_event_skb "cfg80211_testmode_alloc_event_skb"), as an event. It always
consumes it.
