# mac80211 subsystem (basics)

> 출처(원문): https://docs.kernel.org/driver-api/80211/mac80211.html
> 자동 미러링: docs.kernel.org · 정본은 출처 URL (영문 원문 자동 변환본)

---

# mac80211 subsystem (basics)

You should read and understand the information contained within this
part of the book while implementing a mac80211 driver. In some chapters,
advanced usage is noted, those may be skipped if this isn’t needed.

This part of the book only covers station and monitor mode
functionality, additional information required to implement the other
modes is covered in the second part of the book.

## Basic hardware handling

TBD

This chapter shall contain information on getting a hw `struct allocated`
and registered with mac80211.

Since it is required to allocate rates/modes before registering a hw
struct, this chapter shall also contain information on setting up the
rate/mode structs.

Additionally, some discussion about the callbacks and the general
programming model should be in here, including the definition of
ieee80211\_ops which will be referred to a lot.

Finally, a discussion of hardware capabilities should be done with
references to other parts of the book.

enum ieee80211\_hw\_flags
:   hardware flags

**Constants**

`IEEE80211_HW_HAS_RATE_CONTROL`
:   The hardware or firmware includes rate control, and cannot be
    controlled by the stack. As such, no rate control algorithm
    should be instantiated, and the TX rate reported to userspace
    will be taken from the TX status instead of the rate control
    algorithm.
    Note that this requires that the driver implement a number of
    callbacks so it has the correct information, it needs to have
    the **set\_rts\_threshold** callback and must look at the BSS config
    **use\_cts\_prot** for G/N protection, **use\_short\_slot** for slot
    timing in 2.4 GHz and **use\_short\_preamble** for preambles for
    CCK frames.

`IEEE80211_HW_RX_INCLUDES_FCS`
:   Indicates that received frames passed to the stack include
    the FCS at the end.

`IEEE80211_HW_HOST_BROADCAST_PS_BUFFERING`
:   Some wireless LAN chipsets buffer broadcast/multicast frames
    for power saving stations in the hardware/firmware and others
    rely on the host system for such buffering. This option is used
    to configure the IEEE 802.11 upper layer to buffer broadcast and
    multicast frames when there are power saving stations so that
    the driver can fetch them with [`ieee80211_get_buffered_bc()`](mac80211-advanced.html#c.ieee80211_get_buffered_bc "ieee80211_get_buffered_bc").

`IEEE80211_HW_SIGNAL_UNSPEC`
:   Hardware can provide signal values but we don’t know its units. We
    expect values between 0 and **max\_signal**.
    If possible please provide dB or dBm instead.

`IEEE80211_HW_SIGNAL_DBM`
:   Hardware gives signal values in dBm, decibel difference from
    one milliwatt. This is the preferred method since it is standardized
    between different devices. **max\_signal** does not need to be set.

`IEEE80211_HW_NEED_DTIM_BEFORE_ASSOC`
:   This device needs to get data from beacon before association (i.e.
    dtim\_period).

`IEEE80211_HW_SPECTRUM_MGMT`
:   Hardware supports spectrum management defined in 802.11h
    Measurement, Channel Switch, Quieting, TPC

`IEEE80211_HW_AMPDU_AGGREGATION`
:   Hardware supports 11n A-MPDU aggregation.

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_PS`
:   Hardware has power save support (i.e. can go to sleep).

`IEEE80211_HW_PS_NULLFUNC_STACK`
:   Hardware requires nullfunc frame handling in stack, implies
    stack support for dynamic PS.

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_DYNAMIC_PS`
:   Hardware has support for dynamic PS.

`IEEE80211_HW_MFP_CAPABLE`
:   Hardware supports management frame protection (MFP, IEEE 802.11w).

`IEEE80211_HW_WANT_MONITOR_VIF`
:   The driver would like to be informed of
    a virtual monitor interface when monitor interfaces are the only
    active interfaces.

`IEEE80211_HW_NO_VIRTUAL_MONITOR`
:   The driver would like to be informed
    of any monitor interface, as well as their configured channel.
    This is useful for supporting multiple monitor interfaces on different
    channels.

`IEEE80211_HW_NO_AUTO_VIF`
:   The driver would like for no wlanX to
    be created. It is expected user-space will create vifs as
    desired (and thus have them named as desired).

`IEEE80211_HW_SW_CRYPTO_CONTROL`
:   The driver wants to control which of the
    crypto algorithms can be done in software - so don’t automatically
    try to fall back to it if hardware crypto fails, but do so only if
    the driver returns 1. This also forces the driver to advertise its
    supported cipher suites.

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORT_FAST_XMIT`
:   The driver/hardware supports fast-xmit,
    this currently requires only the ability to calculate the duration
    for frames.

`IEEE80211_HW_REPORTS_TX_ACK_STATUS`
:   Hardware can provide ack status reports of Tx frames to
    the stack.

`IEEE80211_HW_CONNECTION_MONITOR`
:   The hardware performs its own connection monitoring, including
    periodic keep-alives to the AP and probing the AP on beacon loss.

`IEEE80211_HW_QUEUE_CONTROL`
:   The driver wants to control per-interface
    queue mapping in order to use different queues (not just one per AC)
    for different virtual interfaces. See the doc section on HW queue
    control for more details.

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_PER_STA_GTK`
:   The device’s crypto engine supports
    per-station GTKs as used by IBSS RSN or during fast transition. If
    the device doesn’t support per-station GTKs, but can be asked not
    to decrypt group addressed frames, then IBSS RSN support is still
    possible but software crypto will be used. Advertise the wiphy flag
    only in that case.

`IEEE80211_HW_AP_LINK_PS`
:   When operating in AP mode the device
    autonomously manages the PS status of connected stations. When
    this flag is set mac80211 will not trigger PS mode for connected
    stations based on the PM bit of incoming frames.
    Use `ieee80211_start_ps()`/`ieee8021_end_ps()` to manually configure
    the PS mode of connected stations.

`IEEE80211_HW_TX_AMPDU_SETUP_IN_HW`
:   The device handles TX A-MPDU session
    setup strictly in HW. mac80211 should not attempt to do this in
    software.

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_RC_TABLE`
:   The driver supports using a rate
    selection table provided by the rate control algorithm.

`IEEE80211_HW_P2P_DEV_ADDR_FOR_INTF`
:   Use the P2P Device address for any
    P2P Interface. This will be honoured even if more than one interface
    is supported.

`IEEE80211_HW_TIMING_BEACON_ONLY`
:   Use sync timing from beacon frames
    only, to allow getting TBTT of a DTIM beacon.

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_HT_CCK_RATES`
:   Hardware supports mixing HT/CCK rates
    and can cope with CCK rates in an aggregation session (e.g. by not
    using aggregation for such frames.)

`IEEE80211_HW_CHANCTX_STA_CSA`
:   Support 802.11h based channel-switch (CSA)
    for a single active channel while using channel contexts. When support
    is not enabled the default action is to disconnect when getting the
    CSA frame.

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_CLONED_SKBS`
:   The driver will never modify the payload
    or tailroom of TX skbs without copying them first.

`IEEE80211_HW_SINGLE_SCAN_ON_ALL_BANDS`
:   The HW supports scanning on all bands
    in one command, mac80211 doesn’t have to run separate scans per band.

`IEEE80211_HW_TDLS_WIDER_BW`
:   The device/driver supports wider bandwidth
    than then BSS bandwidth for a TDLS link on the base channel.

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_AMSDU_IN_AMPDU`
:   The driver supports receiving A-MSDUs
    within A-MPDU.

`IEEE80211_HW_BEACON_TX_STATUS`
:   The device/driver provides TX status
    for sent beacons.

`IEEE80211_HW_NEEDS_UNIQUE_STA_ADDR`
:   Hardware (or driver) requires that each
    station has a unique address, i.e. each station entry can be identified
    by just its MAC address; this prevents, for example, the same station
    from connecting to two virtual AP interfaces at the same time.
    Note that this doesn’t apply for NAN, in which the peer’s NMI address
    can be equal to its NDI address.

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_REORDERING_BUFFER`
:   Hardware (or driver) manages the
    reordering buffer internally, guaranteeing mac80211 receives frames in
    order and does not need to manage its own reorder buffer or BA session
    timeout.

`IEEE80211_HW_USES_RSS`
:   The device uses RSS and thus requires parallel RX,
    which implies using per-CPU station statistics.

`IEEE80211_HW_TX_AMSDU`
:   Hardware (or driver) supports software aggregated
    A-MSDU frames. Requires software tx queueing and fast-xmit support.
    When not using minstrel/minstrel\_ht rate control, the driver must
    limit the maximum A-MSDU size based on the current tx rate by setting
    max\_rc\_amsdu\_len in [`struct ieee80211_sta`](mac80211-advanced.html#c.ieee80211_sta "ieee80211_sta").

`IEEE80211_HW_TX_FRAG_LIST`
:   Hardware (or driver) supports sending frag\_list
    skbs, needed for zero-copy software A-MSDU.

`IEEE80211_HW_REPORTS_LOW_ACK`
:   The driver (or firmware) reports low ack event
    by `ieee80211_report_low_ack()` based on its own algorithm. For such
    drivers, mac80211 packet loss mechanism will not be triggered and driver
    is completely depending on firmware event for station kickout.

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_TX_FRAG`
:   Hardware does fragmentation by itself.
    The stack will not do fragmentation.
    The callback for **set\_frag\_threshold** should be set as well.

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_TDLS_BUFFER_STA`
:   Hardware supports buffer STA on
    TDLS links.

`IEEE80211_HW_DOESNT_SUPPORT_QOS_NDP`
:   The driver (or firmware) doesn’t
    support QoS NDP for AP probing - that’s most likely a driver bug.

`IEEE80211_HW_BUFF_MMPDU_TXQ`
:   use the TXQ for bufferable MMPDUs, this of
    course requires the driver to use TXQs to start with.

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_VHT_EXT_NSS_BW`
:   (Hardware) rate control supports VHT
    extended NSS BW (dot11VHTExtendedNSSBWCapable). This flag will be set if
    the selected rate control algorithm sets `RATE_CTRL_CAPA_VHT_EXT_NSS_BW`
    but if the rate control is built-in then it must be set by the driver.
    See also the documentation for that flag.

`IEEE80211_HW_STA_MMPDU_TXQ`
:   use the extra non-TID per-station TXQ for all
    MMPDUs on station interfaces. This of course requires the driver to use
    TXQs to start with.

`IEEE80211_HW_TX_STATUS_NO_AMPDU_LEN`
:   Driver does not report accurate A-MPDU
    length in tx status information

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_MULTI_BSSID`
:   Hardware supports multi BSSID

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_ONLY_HE_MULTI_BSSID`
:   Hardware supports multi BSSID
    only for HE APs. Applies if **IEEE80211\_HW\_SUPPORTS\_MULTI\_BSSID** is set.

`IEEE80211_HW_AMPDU_KEYBORDER_SUPPORT`
:   The card and driver is only
    aggregating MPDUs with the same keyid, allowing mac80211 to keep Tx
    A-MPDU sessions active while rekeying with Extended Key ID.

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_TX_ENCAP_OFFLOAD`
:   Hardware supports tx encapsulation
    offload

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_RX_DECAP_OFFLOAD`
:   Hardware supports rx decapsulation
    offload

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_CONC_MON_RX_DECAP`
:   Hardware supports concurrent rx
    decapsulation offload and passing raw 802.11 frames for monitor iface.
    If this is supported, the driver must pass both 802.3 frames for real
    usage and 802.11 frames with `RX_FLAG_ONLY_MONITOR` set for monitor to
    the stack.

`IEEE80211_HW_DETECTS_COLOR_COLLISION`
:   HW/driver has support for BSS color
    collision detection and doesn’t need it in software.

`IEEE80211_HW_MLO_MCAST_MULTI_LINK_TX`
:   Hardware/driver handles transmitting
    multicast frames on all links, mac80211 should not do that.

`IEEE80211_HW_DISALLOW_PUNCTURING`
:   HW requires disabling puncturing in EHT
    and connecting with a lower bandwidth instead

`IEEE80211_HW_HANDLES_QUIET_CSA`
:   HW/driver handles quieting for CSA, so
    no need to stop queues. This really should be set by a driver that
    implements MLO, so operation can continue on other links when one
    link is switching.

`IEEE80211_HW_STRICT`
:   strictly enforce certain things mandated by the spec
    but otherwise ignored/worked around for interoperability. This is a
    HW flag so drivers can opt in according to their own control, e.g. in
    testing.

`IEEE80211_HW_SUPPORTS_NDP_BLOCKACK`
:   HW can transmit/receive S1G NDP
    BlockAck frames.

`NUM_IEEE80211_HW_FLAGS`
:   number of hardware flags, used for sizing arrays

**Description**

These flags are used to indicate hardware capabilities to
the stack. Generally, flags here should have their meaning
done in a way that the simplest hardware doesn’t need setting
any particular flags. There are some exceptions to this rule,
however, so you are advised to review these flags carefully.

struct ieee80211\_hw
:   hardware information and state

**Definition**:

```
struct ieee80211_hw {
    struct ieee80211_conf conf;
    struct wiphy *wiphy;
    const char *rate_control_algorithm;
    void *priv;
    unsigned long flags[BITS_TO_LONGS(NUM_IEEE80211_HW_FLAGS)];
    unsigned int extra_tx_headroom;
    unsigned int extra_beacon_tailroom;
    int vif_data_size;
    int sta_data_size;
    int chanctx_data_size;
    int txq_data_size;
    u16 queues;
    u16 max_listen_interval;
    s8 max_signal;
    u8 max_rates;
    u8 max_report_rates;
    u8 max_rate_tries;
    u16 max_rx_aggregation_subframes;
    u16 max_tx_aggregation_subframes;
    u8 max_tx_fragments;
    u8 offchannel_tx_hw_queue;
    u8 radiotap_mcs_details;
    u16 radiotap_vht_details;
    struct {
        int units_pos;
        s16 accuracy;
    } radiotap_timestamp;
    netdev_features_t netdev_features;
    u8 uapsd_queues;
    u8 uapsd_max_sp_len;
    u8 max_nan_de_entries;
    u8 tx_sk_pacing_shift;
    u8 weight_multiplier;
    u32 max_mtu;
    const s8 *tx_power_levels;
    u8 max_txpwr_levels_idx;
};
```

**Members**

`conf`
:   [`struct ieee80211_conf`](#c.ieee80211_conf "ieee80211_conf"), device configuration, don’t use.

`wiphy`
:   This points to the [`struct wiphy`](cfg80211.html#c.wiphy "wiphy") allocated for this
    802.11 PHY. You must fill in the **perm\_addr** and **dev**
    members of this structure using [`SET_IEEE80211_DEV()`](#c.SET_IEEE80211_DEV "SET_IEEE80211_DEV")
    and [`SET_IEEE80211_PERM_ADDR()`](#c.SET_IEEE80211_PERM_ADDR "SET_IEEE80211_PERM_ADDR"). Additionally, all supported
    bands (with channels, bitrates) are registered here.

`rate_control_algorithm`
:   rate control algorithm for this hardware.
    If unset (NULL), the default algorithm will be used. Must be
    set before calling [`ieee80211_register_hw()`](#c.ieee80211_register_hw "ieee80211_register_hw").

`priv`
:   pointer to private area that was allocated for driver use
    along with this structure.

`flags`
:   hardware flags, see [`enum ieee80211_hw_flags`](#c.ieee80211_hw_flags "ieee80211_hw_flags").

`extra_tx_headroom`
:   headroom to reserve in each transmit skb
    for use by the driver (e.g. for transmit headers.)

`extra_beacon_tailroom`
:   tailroom to reserve in each beacon tx skb.
    Can be used by drivers to add extra IEs.

`vif_data_size`
:   size (in bytes) of the drv\_priv data area
    within [`struct ieee80211_vif`](#c.ieee80211_vif "ieee80211_vif").

`sta_data_size`
:   size (in bytes) of the drv\_priv data area
    within [`struct ieee80211_sta`](mac80211-advanced.html#c.ieee80211_sta "ieee80211_sta").

`chanctx_data_size`
:   size (in bytes) of the drv\_priv data area
    within `struct ieee80211_chanctx_conf`.

`txq_data_size`
:   size (in bytes) of the drv\_priv data area
    within **struct** ieee80211\_txq.

`queues`
:   number of available hardware transmit queues for
    data packets. WMM/QoS requires at least four, these
    queues need to have configurable access parameters.

`max_listen_interval`
:   max listen interval in units of beacon interval
    that HW supports

`max_signal`
:   Maximum value for signal (rssi) in RX information, used
    only when **IEEE80211\_HW\_SIGNAL\_UNSPEC** or **IEEE80211\_HW\_SIGNAL\_DB**

`max_rates`
:   maximum number of alternate rate retry stages the hw
    can handle.

`max_report_rates`
:   maximum number of alternate rate retry stages
    the hw can report back.

`max_rate_tries`
:   maximum number of tries for each stage

`max_rx_aggregation_subframes`
:   maximum buffer size (number of
    sub-frames) to be used for A-MPDU block ack receiver
    aggregation.
    This is only relevant if the device has restrictions on the
    number of subframes, if it relies on mac80211 to do reordering
    it shouldn’t be set.

`max_tx_aggregation_subframes`
:   maximum number of subframes in an
    aggregate an HT/HE device will transmit. In HT AddBA we’ll
    advertise a constant value of 64 as some older APs crash if
    the window size is smaller (an example is LinkSys WRT120N
    with FW v1.0.07 build 002 Jun 18 2012).
    For AddBA to HE capable peers this value will be used.

`max_tx_fragments`
:   maximum number of tx buffers per (A)-MSDU, sum
    of 1 + skb\_shinfo(skb)->nr\_frags for each skb in the frag\_list.

`offchannel_tx_hw_queue`
:   HW queue ID to use for offchannel TX
    (if `IEEE80211_HW_QUEUE_CONTROL` is set)

`radiotap_mcs_details`
:   lists which MCS information can the HW
    reports, by default it is set to \_MCS, \_GI and \_BW but doesn’t
    include \_FMT. Use `IEEE80211_RADIOTAP_MCS_HAVE_`\* values, only
    adding \_BW is supported today.

`radiotap_vht_details`
:   lists which VHT MCS information the HW reports,
    the default is \_GI | \_BANDWIDTH.
    Use the `IEEE80211_RADIOTAP_VHT_KNOWN_`\* values.

`radiotap_timestamp`
:   Information for the radiotap timestamp field; if the
    **units\_pos** member is set to a non-negative value then the timestamp
    field will be added and populated from the [`struct ieee80211_rx_status`](#c.ieee80211_rx_status "ieee80211_rx_status")
    device\_timestamp.

`radiotap_timestamp.units_pos`
:   Must be set to a combination of a
    IEEE80211\_RADIOTAP\_TIMESTAMP\_UNIT\_\* and a
    IEEE80211\_RADIOTAP\_TIMESTAMP\_SPOS\_\* value.

`radiotap_timestamp.accuracy`
:   If non-negative, fills the accuracy in the
    radiotap field and the accuracy known flag will be set.

`netdev_features`
:   netdev features to be set in each netdev created
    from this HW. Note that not all features are usable with mac80211,
    other features will be rejected during HW registration.

`uapsd_queues`
:   This bitmap is included in (re)association frame to indicate
    for each access category if it is uAPSD trigger-enabled and delivery-
    enabled. Use IEEE80211\_WMM\_IE\_STA\_QOSINFO\_AC\_\* to set this bitmap.
    Each bit corresponds to different AC. Value ‘1’ in specific bit means
    that corresponding AC is both trigger- and delivery-enabled. ‘0’ means
    neither enabled.

`uapsd_max_sp_len`
:   maximum number of total buffered frames the WMM AP may
    deliver to a WMM STA during any Service Period triggered by the WMM STA.
    Use IEEE80211\_WMM\_IE\_STA\_QOSINFO\_SP\_\* for correct values.

`max_nan_de_entries`
:   maximum number of NAN DE functions supported by the
    device.

`tx_sk_pacing_shift`
:   Pacing shift to set on TCP sockets when frames from
    them are encountered. The default should typically not be changed,
    unless the driver has good reasons for needing more buffers.

`weight_multiplier`
:   Driver specific airtime weight multiplier used while
    refilling deficit of each TXQ.

`max_mtu`
:   the max mtu could be set.

`tx_power_levels`
:   a list of power levels supported by the wifi hardware.
    The power levels can be specified either as integer or fractions.
    The power level at idx 0 shall be the maximum positive power level.

`max_txpwr_levels_idx`
:   the maximum valid idx of ‘tx\_power\_levels’ list.

**Description**

This structure contains the configuration and hardware
information for an 802.11 PHY.

void SET\_IEEE80211\_DEV(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, struct [device](../infrastructure.html#c.device "device") \*dev)
:   set device for 802.11 hardware

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   the [`struct ieee80211_hw`](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") to set the device for

`struct device *dev`
:   the [`struct device`](../infrastructure.html#c.device "device") of this 802.11 device

void SET\_IEEE80211\_PERM\_ADDR(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, const u8 \*addr)
:   set the permanent MAC address for 802.11 hardware

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   the [`struct ieee80211_hw`](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") to set the MAC address for

`const u8 *addr`
:   the address to set

struct ieee80211\_ops
:   callbacks from mac80211 to the driver

**Definition**:

```
struct ieee80211_ops {
    void (*tx)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_tx_control *control, struct sk_buff *skb);
    int (*start)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw);
    void (*stop)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, bool suspend);
#ifdef CONFIG_PM;
    int (*suspend)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct cfg80211_wowlan *wowlan);
    int (*resume)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw);
    void (*set_wakeup)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, bool enabled);
#endif;
    int (*add_interface)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif);
    int (*change_interface)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, enum nl80211_iftype new_type, bool p2p);
    void (*remove_interface)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif);
    int (*config)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, int radio_idx, u32 changed);
    void (*bss_info_changed)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_bss_conf *info, u64 changed);
    void (*vif_cfg_changed)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, u64 changed);
    void (*link_info_changed)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_bss_conf *info, u64 changed);
    int (*start_ap)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_bss_conf *link_conf);
    void (*stop_ap)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_bss_conf *link_conf);
    u64 (*prepare_multicast)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct netdev_hw_addr_list *mc_list);
    void (*configure_filter)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, unsigned int changed_flags, unsigned int *total_flags, u64 multicast);
    void (*config_iface_filter)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, unsigned int filter_flags, unsigned int changed_flags);
    int (*set_tim)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, bool set);
    int (*set_key)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, enum set_key_cmd cmd, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, struct ieee80211_key_conf *key);
    void (*update_tkip_key)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_key_conf *conf, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, u32 iv32, u16 *phase1key);
    void (*set_rekey_data)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct cfg80211_gtk_rekey_data *data);
    void (*set_default_unicast_key)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, int idx);
    int (*hw_scan)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_scan_request *req);
    void (*cancel_hw_scan)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif);
    int (*sched_scan_start)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct cfg80211_sched_scan_request *req, struct ieee80211_scan_ies *ies);
    int (*sched_scan_stop)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif);
    void (*sw_scan_start)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, const u8 *mac_addr);
    void (*sw_scan_complete)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif);
    int (*get_stats)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_low_level_stats *stats);
    void (*get_key_seq)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_key_conf *key, struct ieee80211_key_seq *seq);
    int (*set_frag_threshold)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, int radio_idx, u32 value);
    int (*set_rts_threshold)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, int radio_idx, u32 value);
    int (*sta_add)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta);
    int (*sta_remove)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta);
#ifdef CONFIG_MAC80211_DEBUGFS;
    void (*vif_add_debugfs)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif);
    void (*link_add_debugfs)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_bss_conf *link_conf, struct dentry *dir);
    void (*sta_add_debugfs)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, struct dentry *dir);
    void (*link_sta_add_debugfs)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_link_sta *link_sta, struct dentry *dir);
#endif;
    void (*sta_notify)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, enum sta_notify_cmd, struct ieee80211_sta *sta);
    int (*sta_set_txpwr)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta);
    int (*sta_state)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, enum ieee80211_sta_state old_state, enum ieee80211_sta_state new_state);
    void (*sta_pre_rcu_remove)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta);
    void (*link_sta_rc_update)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_link_sta *link_sta, u32 changed);
    void (*sta_rate_tbl_update)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta);
    void (*sta_statistics)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, struct station_info *sinfo);
    int (*conf_tx)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, unsigned int link_id, u16 ac, const struct ieee80211_tx_queue_params *params);
    u64 (*get_tsf)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif);
    void (*set_tsf)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, u64 tsf);
    void (*offset_tsf)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, s64 offset);
    void (*reset_tsf)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif);
    int (*tx_last_beacon)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw);
    void (*link_sta_statistics)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_link_sta *link_sta, struct link_station_info *link_sinfo);
    int (*ampdu_action)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_ampdu_params *params);
    int (*get_survey)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, int idx, struct survey_info *survey);
    void (*rfkill_poll)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw);
    void (*set_coverage_class)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, int radio_idx, s16 coverage_class);
#ifdef CONFIG_NL80211_TESTMODE;
    int (*testmode_cmd)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, void *data, int len);
    int (*testmode_dump)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct sk_buff *skb, struct netlink_callback *cb, void *data, int len);
#endif;
    void (*flush)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, u32 queues, bool drop);
    void (*flush_sta)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta);
    void (*channel_switch)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_channel_switch *ch_switch);
    int (*set_antenna)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, int radio_idx, u32 tx_ant, u32 rx_ant);
    int (*get_antenna)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, int radio_idx, u32 *tx_ant, u32 *rx_ant);
    int (*remain_on_channel)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_channel *chan, int duration, enum ieee80211_roc_type type);
    int (*cancel_remain_on_channel)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif);
    int (*set_ringparam)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, u32 tx, u32 rx);
    void (*get_ringparam)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, u32 *tx, u32 *tx_max, u32 *rx, u32 *rx_max);
    bool (*tx_frames_pending)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw);
    int (*set_bitrate_mask)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, const struct cfg80211_bitrate_mask *mask);
    void (*event_callback)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, const struct ieee80211_event *event);
    void (*allow_buffered_frames)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, u16 tids, int num_frames, enum ieee80211_frame_release_type reason, bool more_data);
    void (*release_buffered_frames)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, u16 tids, int num_frames, enum ieee80211_frame_release_type reason, bool more_data);
    int (*get_et_sset_count)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, int sset);
    void (*get_et_stats)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ethtool_stats *stats, u64 *data);
    void (*get_et_strings)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, u32 sset, u8 *data);
    void (*mgd_prepare_tx)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_prep_tx_info *info);
    void (*mgd_complete_tx)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_prep_tx_info *info);
    void (*mgd_protect_tdls_discover)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, unsigned int link_id);
    int (*add_chanctx)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_chanctx_conf *ctx);
    void (*remove_chanctx)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_chanctx_conf *ctx);
    void (*change_chanctx)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_chanctx_conf *ctx, u32 changed);
    int (*assign_vif_chanctx)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_bss_conf *link_conf, struct ieee80211_chanctx_conf *ctx);
    void (*unassign_vif_chanctx)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_bss_conf *link_conf, struct ieee80211_chanctx_conf *ctx);
    int (*switch_vif_chanctx)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif_chanctx_switch *vifs, int n_vifs, enum ieee80211_chanctx_switch_mode mode);
    void (*reconfig_complete)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, enum ieee80211_reconfig_type reconfig_type);
#if IS_ENABLED(CONFIG_IPV6);
    void (*ipv6_addr_change)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct inet6_dev *idev);
#endif;
    void (*channel_switch_beacon)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct cfg80211_chan_def *chandef);
    int (*pre_channel_switch)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_channel_switch *ch_switch);
    int (*post_channel_switch)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_bss_conf *link_conf);
    void (*abort_channel_switch)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_bss_conf *link_conf);
    void (*channel_switch_rx_beacon)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_channel_switch *ch_switch);
    int (*join_ibss)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif);
    void (*leave_ibss)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif);
    u32 (*get_expected_throughput)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_sta *sta);
    int (*get_txpower)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, unsigned int link_id, int *dbm);
    int (*tdls_channel_switch)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, u8 oper_class, struct cfg80211_chan_def *chandef, struct sk_buff *tmpl_skb, u32 ch_sw_tm_ie);
    void (*tdls_cancel_channel_switch)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta);
    void (*tdls_recv_channel_switch)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_tdls_ch_sw_params *params);
    void (*wake_tx_queue)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_txq *txq);
    void (*sync_rx_queues)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw);
    int (*start_nan)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct cfg80211_nan_conf *conf);
    int (*stop_nan)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif);
    int (*nan_change_conf)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct cfg80211_nan_conf *conf, u32 changes);
    int (*add_nan_func)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, const struct cfg80211_nan_func *nan_func);
    void (*del_nan_func)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, u8 instance_id);
    int (*nan_peer_sched_changed)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_sta *sta);
    bool (*can_aggregate_in_amsdu)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct sk_buff *head, struct sk_buff *skb);
    int (*get_ftm_responder_stats)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct cfg80211_ftm_responder_stats *ftm_stats);
    int (*start_pmsr)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct cfg80211_pmsr_request *request);
    void (*abort_pmsr)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct cfg80211_pmsr_request *request);
    int (*set_tid_config)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, struct cfg80211_tid_config *tid_conf);
    int (*reset_tid_config)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, u8 tids);
    void (*update_vif_offload)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif);
    void (*sta_set_4addr)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, bool enabled);
    int (*set_sar_specs)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, const struct cfg80211_sar_specs *sar);
    void (*sta_set_decap_offload)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, bool enabled);
    void (*add_twt_setup)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, struct ieee80211_twt_setup *twt);
    void (*twt_teardown_request)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, u8 flowid);
    int (*set_radar_background)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct cfg80211_chan_def *chandef);
    int (*net_fill_forward_path)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, struct net_device_path_ctx *ctx, struct net_device_path *path);
    bool (*can_activate_links)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, u16 active_links);
    int (*change_vif_links)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, u16 old_links, u16 new_links, struct ieee80211_bss_conf *old[IEEE80211_MLD_MAX_NUM_LINKS]);
    int (*change_sta_links)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, u16 old_links, u16 new_links);
    int (*set_hw_timestamp)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct cfg80211_set_hw_timestamp *hwts);
    int (*net_setup_tc)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct net_device *dev, enum tc_setup_type type, void *type_data);
    enum ieee80211_neg_ttlm_res (*can_neg_ttlm)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_neg_ttlm *ttlm);
    void (*prep_add_interface)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, enum nl80211_iftype type);
    int (*set_eml_op_mode)(struct ieee80211_hw *hw, struct ieee80211_vif *vif, struct ieee80211_sta *sta, struct ieee80211_eml_params *eml_params);
};
```

**Members**

`tx`
:   Handler that 802.11 module calls for each transmitted frame.
    skb contains the buffer starting from the IEEE 802.11 header.
    The low-level driver should send the frame out based on
    configuration in the TX control data. This handler should,
    preferably, never fail and stop queues appropriately.
    Must be atomic.

`start`
:   Called before the first netdevice attached to the hardware
    is enabled. This should turn on the hardware and must turn on
    frame reception (for possibly enabled monitor interfaces.)
    Returns negative error codes, these may be seen in userspace,
    or zero.
    When the device is started it should not have a MAC address
    to avoid acknowledging frames before a non-monitor device
    is added.
    Must be implemented and can sleep.

`stop`
:   Called after last netdevice attached to the hardware
    is disabled. This should turn off the hardware (at least
    it must turn off frame reception.)
    May be called right after add\_interface if that rejects
    an interface. If you added any work onto the mac80211 workqueue
    you should ensure to cancel it on this callback.
    Must be implemented and can sleep.

`suspend`
:   Suspend the device; mac80211 itself will quiesce before and
    stop transmitting and doing any other configuration, and then
    ask the device to suspend. This is only invoked when WoWLAN is
    configured, otherwise the device is deconfigured completely and
    reconfigured at resume time.
    The driver may also impose special conditions under which it
    wants to use the “normal” suspend (deconfigure), say if it only
    supports WoWLAN when the device is associated. In this case, it
    must return 1 from this function.

`resume`
:   If WoWLAN was configured, this indicates that mac80211 is
    now resuming its operation, after this the device must be fully
    functional again. If this returns an error, the only way out is
    to also unregister the device. If it returns 1, then mac80211
    will also go through the regular complete restart on resume.

`set_wakeup`
:   Enable or disable wakeup when WoWLAN configuration is
    modified. The reason is that `device_set_wakeup_enable()` is
    supposed to be called when the configuration changes, not only
    in `suspend()`.

`add_interface`
:   Called when a netdevice attached to the hardware is
    enabled. Because it is not called for monitor mode devices, **start**
    and **stop** must be implemented.
    The driver should perform any initialization it needs before
    the device can be enabled. The initial configuration for the
    interface is given in the conf parameter.
    The callback may refuse to add an interface by returning a
    negative error code (which will be seen in userspace.)
    Must be implemented and can sleep.

`change_interface`
:   Called when a netdevice changes type. This callback
    is optional, but only if it is supported can interface types be
    switched while the interface is UP. The callback may sleep.
    Note that while an interface is being switched, it will not be
    found by the interface iteration callbacks.

`remove_interface`
:   Notifies a driver that an interface is going down.
    The **stop** callback is called after this if it is the last interface
    and no monitor interfaces are present.
    When all interfaces are removed, the MAC address in the hardware
    must be cleared so the device no longer acknowledges packets,
    the mac\_addr member of the conf structure is, however, set to the
    MAC address of the device going away.
    Hence, this callback must be implemented. It can sleep.

`config`
:   Handler for configuration requests. IEEE 802.11 code calls this
    function to change hardware configuration, e.g., channel.
    This function should never fail but returns a negative error code
    if it does. The callback can sleep.

`bss_info_changed`
:   Handler for configuration requests related to BSS
    parameters that may vary during BSS’s lifespan, and may affect low
    level driver (e.g. assoc/disassoc status, erp parameters).
    This function should not be used if no BSS has been set, unless
    for association indication. The **changed** parameter indicates which
    of the bss parameters has changed when a call is made. The callback
    can sleep.

`vif_cfg_changed`
:   Handler for configuration requests related to interface
    (MLD) parameters from `struct ieee80211_vif_cfg` that vary during the
    lifetime of the interface (e.g. assoc status, IP addresses, etc.)
    The **changed** parameter indicates which value changed.
    The callback can sleep.

`link_info_changed`
:   Handler for configuration requests related to link
    parameters from `struct ieee80211_bss_conf` that are related to an
    individual link. e.g. legacy/HT/VHT/... rate information.
    The **changed** parameter indicates which value changed, and the **link\_id**
    parameter indicates the link ID. Note that the **link\_id** will be 0 for
    non-MLO connections.
    The callback can sleep.

`start_ap`
:   Start operation on the AP interface, this is called after all the
    information in bss\_conf is set and beacon can be retrieved. A channel
    context is bound before this is called. Note that if the driver uses
    software scan or ROC, this (and **stop\_ap**) isn’t called when the AP is
    just “paused” for scanning/ROC, which is indicated by the beacon being
    disabled/enabled via **bss\_info\_changed**.

`stop_ap`
:   Stop operation on the AP interface.

`prepare_multicast`
:   Prepare for multicast filter configuration.
    This callback is optional, and its return value is passed
    to `configure_filter()`. This callback must be atomic.

`configure_filter`
:   Configure the device’s RX filter.
    See the section “Frame filtering” for more information.
    This callback must be implemented and can sleep.

`config_iface_filter`
:   Configure the interface’s RX filter.
    This callback is optional and is used to configure which frames
    should be passed to mac80211. The filter\_flags is the combination
    of FIF\_\* flags. The changed\_flags is a bit mask that indicates
    which flags are changed.
    This callback can sleep.

`set_tim`
:   Set TIM bit. mac80211 calls this function when a TIM bit
    must be set or cleared for a given STA. Must be atomic.

`set_key`
:   See the section “Hardware crypto acceleration”
    This callback is only called between add\_interface and
    remove\_interface calls, i.e. while the given virtual interface
    is enabled.
    Returns a negative error code if the key can’t be added.
    The callback can sleep.

`update_tkip_key`
:   See the section “Hardware crypto acceleration”
    This callback will be called in the context of Rx. Called for drivers
    which set IEEE80211\_KEY\_FLAG\_TKIP\_REQ\_RX\_P1\_KEY.
    The callback must be atomic.

`set_rekey_data`
:   If the device supports GTK rekeying, for example while the
    host is suspended, it can assign this callback to retrieve the data
    necessary to do GTK rekeying, this is the KEK, KCK and replay counter.
    After rekeying was done it should (for example during resume) notify
    userspace of the new replay counter using `ieee80211_gtk_rekey_notify()`.

`set_default_unicast_key`
:   Set the default (unicast) key index, useful for
    WEP when the device sends data packets autonomously, e.g. for ARP
    offloading. The index can be 0-3, or -1 for unsetting it.

`hw_scan`
:   Ask the hardware to service the scan request, no need to start
    the scan state machine in stack. The scan must honour the channel
    configuration done by the regulatory agent in the wiphy’s
    registered bands. The hardware (or the driver) needs to make sure
    that power save is disabled.
    The **req** ie/ie\_len members are rewritten by mac80211 to contain the
    entire IEs after the SSID, so that drivers need not look at these
    at all but just send them after the SSID -- mac80211 includes the
    (extended) supported rates and HT information (where applicable).
    When the scan finishes, [`ieee80211_scan_completed()`](mac80211-advanced.html#c.ieee80211_scan_completed "ieee80211_scan_completed") must be called;
    note that it also must be called when the scan cannot finish due to
    any error unless this callback returned a negative error code.
    This callback is also allowed to return the special return value 1,
    this indicates that hardware scan isn’t desirable right now and a
    software scan should be done instead. A driver wishing to use this
    capability must ensure its (hardware) scan capabilities aren’t
    advertised as more capable than mac80211’s software scan is.
    The callback can sleep.

`cancel_hw_scan`
:   Ask the low-level tp cancel the active hw scan.
    The driver should ask the hardware to cancel the scan (if possible),
    but the scan will be completed only after the driver will call
    [`ieee80211_scan_completed()`](mac80211-advanced.html#c.ieee80211_scan_completed "ieee80211_scan_completed").
    This callback is needed for wowlan, to prevent enqueueing a new
    scan\_work after the low-level driver was already suspended.
    The callback can sleep.

`sched_scan_start`
:   Ask the hardware to start scanning repeatedly at
    specific intervals. The driver must call the
    `ieee80211_sched_scan_results()` function whenever it finds results.
    This process will continue until sched\_scan\_stop is called.

`sched_scan_stop`
:   Tell the hardware to stop an ongoing scheduled scan.
    In this case, `ieee80211_sched_scan_stopped()` must not be called.

`sw_scan_start`
:   Notifier function that is called just before a software scan
    is started. Can be NULL, if the driver doesn’t need this notification.
    The mac\_addr parameter allows supporting NL80211\_SCAN\_FLAG\_RANDOM\_ADDR,
    the driver may set the NL80211\_FEATURE\_SCAN\_RANDOM\_MAC\_ADDR flag if it
    can use this parameter. The callback can sleep.

`sw_scan_complete`
:   Notifier function that is called just after a
    software scan finished. Can be NULL, if the driver doesn’t need
    this notification.
    The callback can sleep.

`get_stats`
:   Return low-level statistics.
    Returns zero if statistics are available.
    The callback can sleep.

`get_key_seq`
:   If your device implements encryption in hardware and does
    IV/PN assignment then this callback should be provided to read the
    IV/PN for the given key from hardware.
    The callback must be atomic.

`set_frag_threshold`
:   Configuration of fragmentation threshold. Assign this
    if the device does fragmentation by itself. Note that to prevent the
    stack from doing fragmentation IEEE80211\_HW\_SUPPORTS\_TX\_FRAG
    should be set as well.
    The callback can sleep.

`set_rts_threshold`
:   Configuration of RTS threshold (if device needs it)
    The callback can sleep.

`sta_add`
:   Notifies low level driver about addition of an associated station,
    AP, IBSS/WDS/mesh peer etc. This callback can sleep.

`sta_remove`
:   Notifies low level driver about removal of an associated
    station, AP, IBSS/WDS/mesh peer etc. Note that after the callback
    returns it isn’t safe to use the pointer, not even RCU protected;
    no RCU grace period is guaranteed between returning here and freeing
    the station. See **sta\_pre\_rcu\_remove** if needed.
    This callback can sleep.

`vif_add_debugfs`
:   Drivers can use this callback to add a debugfs vif
    directory with its files. This callback should be within a
    CONFIG\_MAC80211\_DEBUGFS conditional. This callback can sleep.

`link_add_debugfs`
:   Drivers can use this callback to add debugfs files
    when a link is added to a mac80211 vif. This callback should be within
    a CONFIG\_MAC80211\_DEBUGFS conditional. This callback can sleep.
    For non-MLO the callback will be called once for the default bss\_conf
    with the vif’s directory rather than a separate subdirectory.

`sta_add_debugfs`
:   Drivers can use this callback to add debugfs files
    when a station is added to mac80211’s station list. This callback
    should be within a CONFIG\_MAC80211\_DEBUGFS conditional. This
    callback can sleep.

`link_sta_add_debugfs`
:   Drivers can use this callback to add debugfs files
    when a link is added to a mac80211 station. This callback
    should be within a CONFIG\_MAC80211\_DEBUGFS conditional. This
    callback can sleep.
    For non-MLO the callback will be called once for the deflink with the
    station’s directory rather than a separate subdirectory.

`sta_notify`
:   Notifies low level driver about power state transition of an
    associated station, AP, IBSS/WDS/mesh peer etc. For a VIF operating
    in AP mode, this callback will not be called when the flag
    `IEEE80211_HW_AP_LINK_PS` is set. Must be atomic.

`sta_set_txpwr`
:   Configure the station tx power. This callback set the tx
    power for the station.
    This callback can sleep.

`sta_state`
:   Notifies low level driver about state transition of a
    station (which can be the AP, a client, IBSS/WDS/mesh peer etc.)
    This callback is mutually exclusive with **sta\_add**/**sta\_remove**.
    It must not fail for down transitions but may fail for transitions
    up the list of states. Also note that after the callback returns it
    isn’t safe to use the pointer, not even RCU protected - no RCU grace
    period is guaranteed between returning here and freeing the station.
    See **sta\_pre\_rcu\_remove** if needed.
    The callback can sleep.

`sta_pre_rcu_remove`
:   Notify driver about station removal before RCU
    synchronisation. This is useful if a driver needs to have station
    pointers protected using RCU, it can then use this call to clear
    the pointers instead of waiting for an RCU grace period to elapse
    in **sta\_state**.
    The callback can sleep.

`link_sta_rc_update`
:   Notifies the driver of changes to the bitrates that can
    be used to transmit to the station. The changes are advertised with bits
    from [`enum ieee80211_rate_control_changed`](mac80211-advanced.html#c.ieee80211_rate_control_changed "ieee80211_rate_control_changed") and the values are reflected
    in the station data. This callback should only be used when the driver
    uses hardware rate control (`IEEE80211_HW_HAS_RATE_CONTROL`) since
    otherwise the rate control algorithm is notified directly.
    Must be atomic.

`sta_rate_tbl_update`
:   Notifies the driver that the rate table changed. This
    is only used if the configured rate control algorithm actually uses
    the new rate table API, and is therefore optional. Must be atomic.

`sta_statistics`
:   Get statistics for this station. For example with beacon
    filtering, the statistics kept by mac80211 might not be accurate, so
    let the driver pre-fill the statistics. The driver can fill most of
    the values (indicating which by setting the filled bitmap), but not
    all of them make sense - see the source for which ones are possible.
    Statistics that the driver doesn’t fill will be filled by mac80211.
    The callback can sleep.

`conf_tx`
:   Configure TX queue parameters (EDCF (aifs, cw\_min, cw\_max),
    bursting) for a hardware TX queue.
    Returns a negative error code on failure.
    The callback can sleep.

`get_tsf`
:   Get the current TSF timer value from firmware/hardware. Currently,
    this is only used for IBSS mode BSSID merging and debugging. Is not a
    required function.
    The callback can sleep.

`set_tsf`
:   Set the TSF timer to the specified value in the firmware/hardware.
    Currently, this is only used for IBSS mode debugging. Is not a
    required function.
    The callback can sleep.

`offset_tsf`
:   Offset the TSF timer by the specified value in the
    firmware/hardware. Preferred to set\_tsf as it avoids delay between
    calling `set_tsf()` and hardware getting programmed, which will show up
    as TSF delay. Is not a required function.
    The callback can sleep.

`reset_tsf`
:   Reset the TSF timer and allow firmware/hardware to synchronize
    with other STAs in the IBSS. This is only used in IBSS mode. This
    function is optional if the firmware/hardware takes full care of
    TSF synchronization.
    The callback can sleep.

`tx_last_beacon`
:   Determine whether the last IBSS beacon was sent by us.
    This is needed only for IBSS mode and the result of this function is
    used to determine whether to reply to Probe Requests.
    Returns non-zero if this device sent the last beacon.
    The callback can sleep.

`link_sta_statistics`
:   Get link statistics for this station. For example with
    beacon filtering, the statistics kept by mac80211 might not be
    accurate, so let the driver pre-fill the statistics. The driver can
    fill most of the values (indicating which by setting the filled
    bitmap), but not all of them make sense - see the source for which
    ones are possible.
    Statistics that the driver doesn’t fill will be filled by mac80211.
    The callback can sleep.

`ampdu_action`
:   Perform a certain A-MPDU action.
    The RA/TID combination determines the destination and TID we want
    the ampdu action to be performed for. The action is defined through
    ieee80211\_ampdu\_mlme\_action.
    When the action is set to `IEEE80211_AMPDU_TX_OPERATIONAL` the driver
    may neither send aggregates containing more subframes than **buf\_size**
    nor send aggregates in a way that lost frames would exceed the
    buffer size. If just limiting the aggregate size, this would be
    possible with a buf\_size of 8:

    * `TX: 1.....7`
    * `RX:  2....7` (lost frame #1)
    * `TX:        8..1...`

    which is invalid since #1 was now re-transmitted well past the
    buffer size of 8. Correct ways to retransmit #1 would be:

    * `TX:        1   or`
    * `TX:        18  or`
    * `TX:        81`

    Even `189` would be wrong since 1 could be lost again.

    Returns a negative error code on failure. The driver may return
    `IEEE80211_AMPDU_TX_START_IMMEDIATE` for `IEEE80211_AMPDU_TX_START`
    if the session can start immediately.

    The callback can sleep.

`get_survey`
:   Return per-channel survey information

`rfkill_poll`
:   Poll rfkill hardware state. If you need this, you also
    need to set wiphy->rfkill\_poll to `true` before registration,
    and need to call `wiphy_rfkill_set_hw_state()` in the callback.
    The callback can sleep.

`set_coverage_class`
:   Set slot time for given coverage class as specified
    in IEEE 802.11-2007 section 17.3.8.6 and modify ACK timeout
    accordingly; coverage class equals to -1 to enable ACK timeout
    estimation algorithm (dynack). To disable dynack set valid value for
    coverage class. This callback is not required and may sleep.

`testmode_cmd`
:   Implement a cfg80211 test mode command. The passed **vif** may
    be `NULL`. The callback can sleep.

`testmode_dump`
:   Implement a cfg80211 test mode dump. The callback can sleep.

`flush`
:   Flush all pending frames from the hardware queue, making sure
    that the hardware queues are empty. The **queues** parameter is a bitmap
    of queues to flush, which is useful if different virtual interfaces
    use different hardware queues; it may also indicate all queues.
    If the parameter **drop** is set to `true`, pending frames may be dropped.
    Note that vif can be NULL.
    The callback can sleep.

`flush_sta`
:   Flush or drop all pending frames from the hardware queue(s) for
    the given station, as it’s about to be removed.
    The callback can sleep.

`channel_switch`
:   Drivers that need (or want) to offload the channel
    switch operation for CSAs received from the AP may implement this
    callback. They must then call `ieee80211_chswitch_done()` to indicate
    completion of the channel switch.

`set_antenna`
:   Set antenna configuration (tx\_ant, rx\_ant) on the device.
    Parameters are bitmaps of allowed antennas to use for TX/RX. Drivers may
    reject TX/RX mask combinations they cannot support by returning -EINVAL
    (also see nl80211.h **NL80211\_ATTR\_WIPHY\_ANTENNA\_TX**).

`get_antenna`
:   Get current antenna configuration from device (tx\_ant, rx\_ant).

`remain_on_channel`
:   Starts an off-channel period on the given channel, must
    call back to `ieee80211_ready_on_channel()` when on that channel. Note
    that normal channel traffic is not stopped as this is intended for hw
    offload. Frames to transmit on the off-channel channel are transmitted
    normally except for the `IEEE80211_TX_CTL_TX_OFFCHAN` flag. When the
    duration (which will always be non-zero) expires, the driver must call
    `ieee80211_remain_on_channel_expired()`.
    Note that this callback may be called while the device is in IDLE and
    must be accepted in this case.
    This callback may sleep.

`cancel_remain_on_channel`
:   Requests that an ongoing off-channel period is
    aborted before it expires. This callback may sleep.

`set_ringparam`
:   Set tx and rx ring sizes.

`get_ringparam`
:   Get tx and rx ring current and maximum sizes.

`tx_frames_pending`
:   Check if there is any pending frame in the hardware
    queues before entering power save.

`set_bitrate_mask`
:   Set a mask of rates to be used for rate control selection
    when transmitting a frame. Currently only legacy rates are handled.
    The callback can sleep.

`event_callback`
:   Notify driver about any event in mac80211. See
    `enum ieee80211_event_type` for the different types.
    The callback must be atomic.

`allow_buffered_frames`
:   Prepare device to allow the given number of frames
    to go out to the given station. The frames will be sent by mac80211
    via the usual TX path after this call. The TX information for frames
    released will also have the `IEEE80211_TX_CTL_NO_PS_BUFFER` flag set
    and the last one will also have `IEEE80211_TX_STATUS_EOSP` set. In case
    frames from multiple TIDs are released and the driver might reorder
    them between the TIDs, it must set the `IEEE80211_TX_STATUS_EOSP` flag
    on the last frame and clear it on all others and also handle the EOSP
    bit in the QoS header correctly. Alternatively, it can also call the
    [`ieee80211_sta_eosp()`](mac80211-advanced.html#c.ieee80211_sta_eosp "ieee80211_sta_eosp") function.
    The **tids** parameter is a bitmap and tells the driver which TIDs the
    frames will be on; it will at most have two bits set.
    This callback must be atomic.

`release_buffered_frames`
:   Release buffered frames according to the given
    parameters. In the case where the driver buffers some frames for
    sleeping stations mac80211 will use this callback to tell the driver
    to release some frames, either for PS-poll or uAPSD.
    Note that if the **more\_data** parameter is `false` the driver must check
    if there are more frames on the given TIDs, and if there are more than
    the frames being released then it must still set the more-data bit in
    the frame. If the **more\_data** parameter is `true`, then of course the
    more-data bit must always be set.
    The **tids** parameter tells the driver which TIDs to release frames
    from, for PS-poll it will always have only a single bit set.
    In the case this is used for a PS-poll initiated release, the
    **num\_frames** parameter will always be 1 so code can be shared. In
    this case the driver must also set `IEEE80211_TX_STATUS_EOSP` flag
    on the TX status (and must report TX status) so that the PS-poll
    period is properly ended. This is used to avoid sending multiple
    responses for a retried PS-poll frame.
    In the case this is used for uAPSD, the **num\_frames** parameter may be
    bigger than one, but the driver may send fewer frames (it must send
    at least one, however). In this case it is also responsible for
    setting the EOSP flag in the QoS header of the frames. Also, when the
    service period ends, the driver must set `IEEE80211_TX_STATUS_EOSP`
    on the last frame in the SP. Alternatively, it may call the function
    [`ieee80211_sta_eosp()`](mac80211-advanced.html#c.ieee80211_sta_eosp "ieee80211_sta_eosp") to inform mac80211 of the end of the SP.
    This callback must be atomic.

`get_et_sset_count`
:   Ethtool API to get string-set count.
    Note that the wiphy mutex is not held for this callback since it’s
    expected to return a static value.

`get_et_stats`
:   Ethtool API to get a set of u64 stats.

`get_et_strings`
:   Ethtool API to get a set of strings to describe stats
    and perhaps other supported types of ethtool data-sets.
    Note that the wiphy mutex is not held for this callback since it’s
    expected to return a static value.

`mgd_prepare_tx`
:   Prepare for transmitting a management frame for association
    before associated. In multi-channel scenarios, a virtual interface is
    bound to a channel before it is associated, but as it isn’t associated
    yet it need not necessarily be given airtime, in particular since any
    transmission to a P2P GO needs to be synchronized against the GO’s
    powersave state. mac80211 will call this function before transmitting a
    management frame prior to transmitting that frame to allow the driver
    to give it channel time for the transmission, to get a response and be
    able to synchronize with the GO.
    The callback will be called before each transmission and upon return
    mac80211 will transmit the frame right away.
    Additional information is passed in the `struct ieee80211_prep_tx_info`
    data. If duration there is greater than zero, mac80211 hints to the
    driver the duration for which the operation is requested.
    The callback is optional and can (should!) sleep.

`mgd_complete_tx`
:   Notify the driver that the response frame for a previously
    transmitted frame announced with **mgd\_prepare\_tx** was received, the data
    is filled similarly to **mgd\_prepare\_tx** though the duration is not used.
    Note that this isn’t always called for each `mgd_prepare_tx()` call, for
    example for SAE the ‘confirm’ messages can be on the air in any order.

`mgd_protect_tdls_discover`
:   Protect a TDLS discovery session. After sending
    a TDLS discovery-request, we expect a reply to arrive on the AP’s
    channel. We must stay on the channel (no PSM, scan, etc.), since a TDLS
    setup-response is a direct packet not buffered by the AP.
    mac80211 will call this function just before the transmission of a TDLS
    discovery-request. The recommended period of protection is at least
    2 \* (DTIM period).
    The callback is optional and can sleep.

`add_chanctx`
:   Notifies device driver about new channel context creation.
    This callback may sleep.

`remove_chanctx`
:   Notifies device driver about channel context destruction.
    This callback may sleep.

`change_chanctx`
:   Notifies device driver about channel context changes that
    may happen when combining different virtual interfaces on the same
    channel context with different settings
    This callback may sleep.

`assign_vif_chanctx`
:   Notifies device driver about channel context being bound
    to vif. Possible use is for hw queue remapping.
    This callback may sleep.

`unassign_vif_chanctx`
:   Notifies device driver about channel context being
    unbound from vif.
    This callback may sleep.

`switch_vif_chanctx`
:   switch a number of vifs from one chanctx to
    another, as specified in the list of
    **ieee80211\_vif\_chanctx\_switch** passed to the driver, according
    to the mode defined in `ieee80211_chanctx_switch_mode`.
    This callback may sleep.

`reconfig_complete`
:   Called after a call to `ieee80211_restart_hw()` and
    during resume, when the reconfiguration has completed.
    This can help the driver implement the reconfiguration step (and
    indicate mac80211 is ready to receive frames).
    This callback may sleep.

`ipv6_addr_change`
:   IPv6 address assignment on the given interface changed.
    Currently, this is only called for managed or P2P client interfaces.
    This callback is optional; it must not sleep.

`channel_switch_beacon`
:   Starts a channel switch to a new channel.
    Beacons are modified to include CSA or ECSA IEs before calling this
    function. The corresponding count fields in these IEs must be
    decremented, and when they reach 1 the driver must call
    `ieee80211_csa_finish()`. Drivers which use [`ieee80211_beacon_get()`](mac80211-advanced.html#c.ieee80211_beacon_get "ieee80211_beacon_get")
    get the csa counter decremented by mac80211, but must check if it is
    1 using `ieee80211_beacon_counter_is_complete()` after the beacon has been
    transmitted and then call `ieee80211_csa_finish()`.
    If the CSA count starts as zero or 1, this function will not be called,
    since there won’t be any time to beacon before the switch anyway.

`pre_channel_switch`
:   This is an optional callback that is called
    before a channel switch procedure is started (ie. when a STA
    gets a CSA or a userspace initiated channel-switch), allowing
    the driver to prepare for the channel switch.

`post_channel_switch`
:   This is an optional callback that is called
    after a channel switch procedure is completed, allowing the
    driver to go back to a normal configuration.

`abort_channel_switch`
:   This is an optional callback that is called
    when channel switch procedure was aborted, allowing the
    driver to go back to a normal configuration.

`channel_switch_rx_beacon`
:   This is an optional callback that is called
    when channel switch procedure is in progress and additional beacon with
    CSA IE was received, allowing driver to track changes in count.

`join_ibss`
:   Join an IBSS (on an IBSS interface); this is called after all
    information in bss\_conf is set up and the beacon can be retrieved. A
    channel context is bound before this is called.

`leave_ibss`
:   Leave the IBSS again.

`get_expected_throughput`
:   extract the expected throughput towards the
    specified station. The returned value is expressed in Kbps. It returns 0
    if the RC algorithm does not have proper data to provide.

`get_txpower`
:   get current maximum tx power (in dBm) based on configuration
    and hardware limits.

`tdls_channel_switch`
:   Start channel-switching with a TDLS peer. The driver
    is responsible for continually initiating channel-switching operations
    and returning to the base channel for communication with the AP. The
    driver receives a channel-switch request template and the location of
    the switch-timing IE within the template as part of the invocation.
    The template is valid only within the call, and the driver can
    optionally copy the skb for further re-use.

`tdls_cancel_channel_switch`
:   Stop channel-switching with a TDLS peer. Both
    peers must be on the base channel when the call completes.

`tdls_recv_channel_switch`
:   a TDLS channel-switch related frame (request or
    response) has been received from a remote peer. The driver gets
    parameters parsed from the incoming frame and may use them to continue
    an ongoing channel-switch operation. In addition, a channel-switch
    response template is provided, together with the location of the
    switch-timing IE within the template. The skb can only be used within
    the function call.

`wake_tx_queue`
:   Called when new packets have been added to the queue.

`sync_rx_queues`
:   Process all pending frames in RSS queues. This is a
    synchronization which is needed in case driver has in its RSS queues
    pending frames that were received prior to the control path action
    currently taken (e.g. disassociation) but are not processed yet.

`start_nan`
:   join an existing NAN cluster, or create a new one.

`stop_nan`
:   leave the NAN cluster.

`nan_change_conf`
:   change NAN configuration. The data in cfg80211\_nan\_conf
    contains full new configuration and changes specify which parameters
    are changed with respect to the last NAN config.
    The driver gets both full configuration and the changed parameters since
    some devices may need the full configuration while others need only the
    changed parameters.

`add_nan_func`
:   Add a NAN function. Returns 0 on success. The data in
    cfg80211\_nan\_func must not be referenced outside the scope of
    this call.

`del_nan_func`
:   Remove a NAN function. The driver must call
    `ieee80211_nan_func_terminated()` with
    NL80211\_NAN\_FUNC\_TERM\_REASON\_USER\_REQUEST reason code upon removal.

`nan_peer_sched_changed`
:   Notifies the driver that the peer NAN schedule
    has changed. The new schedule is available via sta->nan\_sched.
    Note that the channel\_entry blob might not match the actual chandef
    since the bandwidth of the chandef is the minimum of the local and peer
    bandwidth. It is the driver responsibility to remove the peer schedule
    when the NMI station is removed.

`can_aggregate_in_amsdu`
:   Called in order to determine if HW supports
    aggregating two specific frames in the same A-MSDU. The relation
    between the skbs should be symmetric and transitive. Note that while
    skb is always a real frame, head may or may not be an A-MSDU.

`get_ftm_responder_stats`
:   Retrieve FTM responder statistics, if available.
    Statistics should be cumulative, currently no way to reset is provided.

`start_pmsr`
:   start peer measurement (e.g. FTM) (this call can sleep)

`abort_pmsr`
:   abort peer measurement (this call can sleep)

`set_tid_config`
:   Apply TID specific configurations. This callback may sleep.

`reset_tid_config`
:   Reset TID specific configuration for the peer.
    This callback may sleep.

`update_vif_offload`
:   Update virtual interface offload flags
    This callback may sleep.

`sta_set_4addr`
:   Called to notify the driver when a station starts/stops using
    4-address mode

`set_sar_specs`
:   Update the SAR (TX power) settings.

`sta_set_decap_offload`
:   Called to notify the driver when a station is allowed
    to use rx decapsulation offload

`add_twt_setup`
:   Update hw with TWT agreement parameters received from the peer.
    This callback allows the hw to check if requested parameters
    are supported and if there is enough room for a new agreement.
    The hw is expected to set agreement result in the req\_type field of
    twt structure.

`twt_teardown_request`
:   Update the hw with TWT teardown request received
    from the peer.

`set_radar_background`
:   Configure dedicated offchannel chain available for
    radar/CAC detection on some hw. This chain can’t be used to transmit
    or receive frames and it is bounded to a running wdev.
    Background radar/CAC detection allows to avoid the CAC downtime
    switching to a different channel during CAC detection on the selected
    radar channel.
    The caller is expected to set chandef pointer to NULL in order to
    disable background CAC/radar detection.

`net_fill_forward_path`
:   Called from .ndo\_fill\_forward\_path in order to
    resolve a path for hardware flow offloading

`can_activate_links`
:   Checks if a specific active\_links bitmap is
    supported by the driver.

`change_vif_links`
:   Change the valid links on an interface, note that while
    removing the old link information is still valid (link\_conf pointer),
    but may immediately disappear after the function returns. The old or
    new links bitmaps may be 0 if going from/to a non-MLO situation.
    The **old** array contains pointers to the old bss\_conf structures
    that were already removed, in case they’re needed.
    Note that removal of link should always succeed, so the return value
    will be ignored in a removal only case.
    This callback can sleep.

`change_sta_links`
:   Change the valid links of a station, similar to
    **change\_vif\_links**. This callback can sleep.
    Note that a sta can also be inserted or removed with valid links,
    i.e. passed to **sta\_add**/**sta\_state** with sta->valid\_links not zero.
    In fact, cannot change from having valid\_links and not having them.

`set_hw_timestamp`
:   Enable/disable HW timestamping of TM/FTM frames. This is
    not restored at HW reset by mac80211 so drivers need to take care of
    that.

`net_setup_tc`
:   Called from .ndo\_setup\_tc in order to prepare hardware
    flow offloading for flows originating from the vif.
    Note that the driver must not assume that the vif driver\_data is valid
    at this point, since the callback can be called during netdev teardown.

`can_neg_ttlm`
:   for managed interface, requests the driver to determine
    if the requested TID-To-Link mapping can be accepted or not.
    If it’s not accepted the driver may suggest a preferred mapping and
    modify **ttlm** parameter with the suggested TID-to-Link mapping.

`prep_add_interface`
:   prepare for interface addition. This can be used by
    drivers to prepare for the addition of a new interface, e.g., allocate
    the needed resources etc. This callback doesn’t guarantee that an
    interface with the specified type would be added, and thus drivers that
    implement this callback need to handle such cases. The type is the full
    `enum nl80211_iftype`.

`set_eml_op_mode`
:   Configure eMLSR/eMLMR operation mode in the underlay
    driver according to the parameter received in the EML Operating mode
    notification frame.

**Description**

This structure contains various callbacks that the driver may
handle or, in some cases, must handle, for example to configure
the hardware to a new channel or to transmit a frame.

**Note**

this callback is called if **vif\_cfg\_changed** or **link\_info\_changed**
:   are not implemented.

struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*ieee80211\_alloc\_hw(size\_t priv\_data\_len, const struct [ieee80211\_ops](#c.ieee80211_ops "ieee80211_ops") \*ops)
:   Allocate a new hardware device

**Parameters**

`size_t priv_data_len`
:   length of private data

`const struct ieee80211_ops *ops`
:   callbacks for this device

**Description**

This must be called once for each hardware device. The returned pointer
must be used to refer to this device when calling other functions.
mac80211 allocates a private data area for the driver pointed to by
**priv** in [`struct ieee80211_hw`](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw"), the size of this area is given as
**priv\_data\_len**.

**Return**

A pointer to the new hardware device, or `NULL` on error.

int ieee80211\_register\_hw(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw)
:   Register hardware device

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   the device to register as returned by [`ieee80211_alloc_hw()`](#c.ieee80211_alloc_hw "ieee80211_alloc_hw")

**Description**

You must call this function before any other functions in
mac80211. Note that before a hardware can be registered, you
need to fill the contained wiphy’s information.

**Return**

0 on success. An error code otherwise.

void ieee80211\_unregister\_hw(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw)
:   Unregister a hardware device

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   the hardware to unregister

**Description**

This function instructs mac80211 to free allocated resources
and unregister netdevices from the networking subsystem.

void ieee80211\_free\_hw(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw)
:   free hardware descriptor

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   the hardware to free

**Description**

This function frees everything that was allocated, including the
private data for the driver. You must call [`ieee80211_unregister_hw()`](#c.ieee80211_unregister_hw "ieee80211_unregister_hw")
before calling this function.

## PHY configuration

TBD

This chapter should describe PHY handling including start/stop callbacks
and the various structures used.

enum ieee80211\_conf\_flags
:   configuration flags

**Constants**

`IEEE80211_CONF_MONITOR`
:   there’s a monitor interface present -- use this
    to determine for example whether to calculate timestamps for packets
    or not, do not use instead of filter flags!

`IEEE80211_CONF_PS`
:   Enable 802.11 power save mode (managed mode only).
    This is the power save mode defined by IEEE 802.11-2007 section 11.2,
    meaning that the hardware still wakes up for beacons, is able to
    transmit frames and receive the possible acknowledgment frames.
    Not to be confused with hardware specific wakeup/sleep states,
    driver is responsible for that. See the section “Powersave support”
    for more.

`IEEE80211_CONF_IDLE`
:   The device is running, but idle; if the flag is set
    the driver should be prepared to handle configuration requests but
    may turn the device off as much as possible. Typically, this flag will
    be set when an interface is set UP but not associated or scanning, but
    it can also be unset in that case when monitor interfaces are active.

`IEEE80211_CONF_OFFCHANNEL`
:   The device is currently not on its main
    operating channel.

**Description**

Flags to define PHY configuration options

struct ieee80211\_conf
:   configuration of the device

**Definition**:

```
struct ieee80211_conf {
    u32 flags;
    int power_level, dynamic_ps_timeout;
    u16 listen_interval;
    u8 ps_dtim_period;
    u8 long_frame_max_tx_count, short_frame_max_tx_count;
    struct cfg80211_chan_def chandef;
    bool radar_enabled;
    enum ieee80211_smps_mode smps_mode;
};
```

**Members**

`flags`
:   configuration flags defined above

`power_level`
:   requested transmit power (in dBm), backward compatibility
    value only that is set to the minimum of all interfaces

`dynamic_ps_timeout`
:   The dynamic powersave timeout (in ms), see the
    powersave documentation below. This variable is valid only when
    the CONF\_PS flag is set.

`listen_interval`
:   listen interval in units of beacon interval

`ps_dtim_period`
:   The DTIM period of the AP we’re connected to, for use
    in power saving. Power saving will not be enabled until a beacon
    has been received and the DTIM period is known.

`long_frame_max_tx_count`
:   Maximum number of transmissions for a “long” frame
    (a frame not RTS protected), called “dot11LongRetryLimit” in 802.11,
    but actually means the number of transmissions not the number of retries

`short_frame_max_tx_count`
:   Maximum number of transmissions for a “short”
    frame, called “dot11ShortRetryLimit” in 802.11, but actually means the
    number of transmissions not the number of retries

`chandef`
:   the channel definition to tune to

`radar_enabled`
:   whether radar detection is enabled

`smps_mode`
:   spatial multiplexing powersave mode; note that
    `IEEE80211_SMPS_STATIC` is used when the device is not
    configured for an HT channel.
    Note that this is only valid if channel contexts are not used,
    otherwise each channel context has the number of chains listed.

**Description**

This `struct indicates` how the driver shall configure the hardware.

## Virtual interfaces

TBD

This chapter should describe virtual interface basics that are relevant
to the driver (VLANs, MGMT etc are not.) It should explain the use of
the add\_iface/remove\_iface callbacks as well as the interface
configuration callbacks.

Things related to AP mode should be discussed there.

Things related to supporting multiple interfaces should be in the
appropriate chapter, a BIG FAT note should be here about this though and
the recommendation to allow only a single interface in STA mode at
first!

struct ieee80211\_vif
:   per-interface data

**Definition**:

```
struct ieee80211_vif {
    enum nl80211_iftype type;
    struct ieee80211_vif_cfg cfg;
    struct ieee80211_bss_conf bss_conf;
    struct ieee80211_bss_conf *link_conf[IEEE80211_MLD_MAX_NUM_LINKS];
    u16 valid_links, active_links, dormant_links, suspended_links;
    struct ieee80211_neg_ttlm neg_ttlm;
    u8 addr[ETH_ALEN];
    bool addr_valid;
    bool p2p;
    u8 cab_queue;
    u8 hw_queue[IEEE80211_NUM_ACS];
    struct ieee80211_txq *txq;
    struct ieee80211_txq *txq_mgmt;
    netdev_features_t netdev_features;
    u32 driver_flags;
    u32 offload_flags;
#ifdef CONFIG_MAC80211_DEBUGFS;
    struct dentry *debugfs_dir;
#endif;
    bool probe_req_reg;
    bool rx_mcast_action_reg;
    u8 drv_priv[];
};
```

**Members**

`type`
:   type of this virtual interface

`cfg`
:   vif configuration, see `struct ieee80211_vif_cfg`

`bss_conf`
:   BSS configuration for this interface, either our own
    or the BSS we’re associated to

`link_conf`
:   in case of MLD, the per-link BSS configuration,
    indexed by link ID

`valid_links`
:   bitmap of valid links, or 0 for non-MLO.

`active_links`
:   The bitmap of active links, or 0 for non-MLO.
    The driver shouldn’t change this directly, but use the
    API calls meant for that purpose.

`dormant_links`
:   subset of the valid links that are disabled/suspended
    due to advertised or negotiated TTLM respectively.
    0 for non-MLO.

`suspended_links`
:   subset of dormant\_links representing links that are
    suspended due to negotiated TTLM, and could be activated in the
    future by tearing down the TTLM negotiation.
    0 for non-MLO.

`neg_ttlm`
:   negotiated TID to link mapping info.
    see `struct ieee80211_neg_ttlm`.

`addr`
:   address of this interface

`addr_valid`
:   indicates if the address is actively used. Set to false for
    passive monitor interfaces, true in all other cases.

`p2p`
:   indicates whether this AP or STA interface is a p2p
    interface, i.e. a GO or p2p-sta respectively

`cab_queue`
:   content-after-beacon (DTIM beacon really) queue, AP mode only

`hw_queue`
:   hardware queue for each AC

`txq`
:   the multicast data TX queue

`txq_mgmt`
:   the mgmt frame TX queue, currently only exists for NAN devices

`netdev_features`
:   tx netdev features supported by the hardware for this
    vif. mac80211 initializes this to hw->netdev\_features, and the driver
    can mask out specific tx features. mac80211 will handle software fixup
    for masked offloads (GSO, CSUM)

`driver_flags`
:   flags/capabilities the driver has for this interface,
    these need to be set (or cleared) when the interface is added
    or, if supported by the driver, the interface type is changed
    at runtime, mac80211 will never touch this field

`offload_flags`
:   802.3 -> 802.11 enapsulation offload flags, see
    `enum ieee80211_offload_flags`.

`debugfs_dir`
:   debugfs dentry, can be used by drivers to create own per
    interface debug files. Note that it will be NULL for the virtual
    monitor interface (if that is requested.)

`probe_req_reg`
:   probe requests should be reported to mac80211 for this
    interface.

`rx_mcast_action_reg`
:   multicast Action frames should be reported to mac80211
    for this interface.

`drv_priv`
:   data area for driver use, will always be aligned to
    sizeof(void \*).

**Description**

Data in this structure is continually present for driver
use during the life of a virtual interface.

## Receive and transmit processing

### what should be here

TBD

This should describe the receive and transmit paths in mac80211/the
drivers as well as transmit status handling.

### Frame format

As a general rule, when frames are passed between mac80211 and the driver,
they start with the IEEE 802.11 header and include the same octets that are
sent over the air except for the FCS which should be calculated by the
hardware.

There are, however, various exceptions to this rule for advanced features:

The first exception is for hardware encryption and decryption offload
where the IV/ICV may or may not be generated in hardware.

Secondly, when the hardware handles fragmentation, the frame handed to
the driver from mac80211 is the MSDU, not the MPDU.

### Packet alignment

Drivers always need to pass packets that are aligned to two-byte boundaries
to the stack.

Additionally, they should, if possible, align the payload data in a way that
guarantees that the contained IP header is aligned to a four-byte
boundary. In the case of regular frames, this simply means aligning the
payload to a four-byte boundary (because either the IP header is directly
contained, or IV/RFC1042 headers that have a length divisible by four are
in front of it). If the payload data is not properly aligned and the
architecture doesn’t support efficient unaligned operations, mac80211
will align the data.

With A-MSDU frames, however, the payload data address must yield two modulo
four because there are 14-byte 802.3 headers within the A-MSDU frames that
push the IP header further back to a multiple of four again. Thankfully, the
specs were sane enough this time around to require padding each A-MSDU
subframe to a length that is a multiple of four.

Padding like Atheros hardware adds which is between the 802.11 header and
the payload is not supported; the driver is required to move the 802.11
header to be directly in front of the payload in that case.

### Calling into mac80211 from interrupts

Only [`ieee80211_tx_status_irqsafe()`](#c.ieee80211_tx_status_irqsafe "ieee80211_tx_status_irqsafe") and [`ieee80211_rx_irqsafe()`](#c.ieee80211_rx_irqsafe "ieee80211_rx_irqsafe") can be
called in hardware interrupt context. The low-level driver must not call any
other functions in hardware interrupt context. If there is a need for such
call, the low-level driver should first ACK the interrupt and perform the
IEEE 802.11 code call after this, e.g. from a scheduled workqueue or even
tasklet function.

NOTE: If the driver opts to use the \_irqsafe() functions, it may not also
:   use the non-IRQ-safe functions!

### functions/definitions

enum mac80211\_tx\_info\_flags
:   flags to describe transmission information/status

**Constants**

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_REQ_TX_STATUS`
:   require TX status callback for this frame.

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_ASSIGN_SEQ`
:   The driver has to assign a sequence
    number to this frame, taking care of not overwriting the fragment
    number and increasing the sequence number only when the
    IEEE80211\_TX\_CTL\_FIRST\_FRAGMENT flag is set. mac80211 will properly
    assign sequence numbers to QoS-data frames but cannot do so correctly
    for non-QoS-data and management frames because beacons need them from
    that counter as well and mac80211 cannot guarantee proper sequencing.
    If this flag is set, the driver should instruct the hardware to
    assign a sequence number to the frame or assign one itself. Cf. IEEE
    802.11-2007 7.1.3.4.1 paragraph 3. This flag will always be set for
    beacons and always be clear for frames without a sequence number field.

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_NO_ACK`
:   tell the low level not to wait for an ack

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_CLEAR_PS_FILT`
:   clear powersave filter for destination
    station

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_FIRST_FRAGMENT`
:   this is a first fragment of the frame

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_SEND_AFTER_DTIM`
:   send this frame after DTIM beacon

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_AMPDU`
:   this frame should be sent as part of an A-MPDU

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_INJECTED`
:   Frame was injected, internal to mac80211.

`IEEE80211_TX_STAT_TX_FILTERED`
:   The frame was not transmitted
    because the destination STA was in powersave mode. Note that to
    avoid race conditions, the filter must be set by the hardware or
    firmware upon receiving a frame that indicates that the station
    went to sleep (must be done on device to filter frames already on
    the queue) and may only be unset after mac80211 gives the OK for
    that by setting the IEEE80211\_TX\_CTL\_CLEAR\_PS\_FILT (see above),
    since only then is it guaranteed that no more frames are in the
    hardware queue.

`IEEE80211_TX_STAT_ACK`
:   Frame was acknowledged

`IEEE80211_TX_STAT_AMPDU`
:   The frame was aggregated, so status
    is for the whole aggregation.

`IEEE80211_TX_STAT_AMPDU_NO_BACK`
:   no block ack was returned,
    so consider using block ack request (BAR).

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_RATE_CTRL_PROBE`
:   internal to mac80211, can be
    set by rate control algorithms to indicate probe rate, will
    be cleared for fragmented frames (except on the last fragment)

`IEEE80211_TX_INTFL_OFFCHAN_TX_OK`
:   Internal to mac80211. Used to indicate
    that a frame can be transmitted while the queues are stopped for
    off-channel operation.

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_HW_80211_ENCAP`
:   This frame uses hardware encapsulation
    (header conversion)

`IEEE80211_TX_INTFL_RETRIED`
:   completely internal to mac80211,
    used to indicate that a frame was already retried due to PS

`IEEE80211_TX_INTFL_DONT_ENCRYPT`
:   completely internal to mac80211,
    used to indicate frame should not be encrypted

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_NO_PS_BUFFER`
:   This frame is a response to a poll
    frame (PS-Poll or uAPSD) or a non-bufferable MMPDU and must
    be sent although the station is in powersave mode.

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_MORE_FRAMES`
:   More frames will be passed to the
    transmit function after the current frame, this can be used
    by drivers to kick the DMA queue only if unset or when the
    queue gets full.

`IEEE80211_TX_INTFL_RETRANSMISSION`
:   This frame is being retransmitted
    after TX status because the destination was asleep, it must not
    be modified again (no seqno assignment, crypto, etc.)

`IEEE80211_TX_INTFL_MLME_CONN_TX`
:   This frame was transmitted by the MLME
    code for connection establishment, this indicates that its status
    should kick the MLME state machine.

`IEEE80211_TX_INTFL_NL80211_FRAME_TX`
:   Frame was requested through nl80211
    MLME command (internal to mac80211 to figure out whether to send TX
    status to user space)

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_LDPC`
:   tells the driver to use LDPC for this frame

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_STBC`
:   Enables Space-Time Block Coding (STBC) for this
    frame and selects the maximum number of streams that it can use.

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_TX_OFFCHAN`
:   Marks this packet to be transmitted on
    the off-channel channel when a remain-on-channel offload is done
    in hardware -- normal packets still flow and are expected to be
    handled properly by the device.

`IEEE80211_TX_INTFL_TKIP_MIC_FAILURE`
:   Marks this packet to be used for TKIP
    testing. It will be sent out with incorrect Michael MIC key to allow
    TKIP countermeasures to be tested.

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_NO_CCK_RATE`
:   This frame will be sent at non CCK rate.
    This flag is actually used for management frame especially for P2P
    frames not being sent at CCK rate in 2GHz band.

`IEEE80211_TX_STATUS_EOSP`
:   This packet marks the end of service period,
    when its status is reported the service period ends. For frames in
    an SP that mac80211 transmits, it is already set; for driver frames
    the driver may set this flag. It is also used to do the same for
    PS-Poll responses.

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_USE_MINRATE`
:   This frame will be sent at lowest rate.
    This flag is used to send nullfunc frame at minimum rate when
    the nullfunc is used for connection monitoring purpose.

`IEEE80211_TX_CTL_DONTFRAG`
:   Don’t fragment this packet even if it
    would be fragmented by size (this is optional, only used for
    monitor injection).

`IEEE80211_TX_STAT_NOACK_TRANSMITTED`
:   A frame that was marked with
    IEEE80211\_TX\_CTL\_NO\_ACK has been successfully transmitted without
    any errors (like issues specific to the driver/HW).
    This flag must not be set for frames that don’t request no-ack
    behaviour with IEEE80211\_TX\_CTL\_NO\_ACK.

**Description**

These flags are used with the **flags** member of [`ieee80211_tx_info`](#c.ieee80211_tx_info "ieee80211_tx_info").

**Note**

If you have to add new flags to the enumeration, then don’t
:   forget to update `IEEE80211_TX_TEMPORARY_FLAGS` when necessary.

enum mac80211\_tx\_control\_flags
:   flags to describe transmit control

**Constants**

`IEEE80211_TX_CTRL_PORT_CTRL_PROTO`
:   this frame is a port control
    protocol frame (e.g. EAP)

`IEEE80211_TX_CTRL_PS_RESPONSE`
:   This frame is a response to a poll
    frame (PS-Poll or uAPSD).

`IEEE80211_TX_CTRL_RATE_INJECT`
:   This frame is injected with rate information

`IEEE80211_TX_CTRL_AMSDU`
:   This frame is an A-MSDU frame

`IEEE80211_TX_CTRL_FAST_XMIT`
:   This frame is going through the fast\_xmit path

`IEEE80211_TX_CTRL_SKIP_MPATH_LOOKUP`
:   This frame skips mesh path lookup

`IEEE80211_TX_INTCFL_NEED_TXPROCESSING`
:   completely internal to mac80211,
    used to indicate that a pending frame requires TX processing before
    it can be sent out.

`IEEE80211_TX_CTRL_NO_SEQNO`
:   Do not overwrite the sequence number that
    has already been assigned to this frame.

`IEEE80211_TX_CTRL_DONT_REORDER`
:   This frame should not be reordered
    relative to other frames that have this flag set, independent
    of their QoS TID or other priority field values.

`IEEE80211_TX_CTRL_MCAST_MLO_FIRST_TX`
:   first MLO TX, used mostly internally
    for sequence number assignment

`IEEE80211_TX_CTRL_DONT_USE_RATE_MASK`
:   Don’t use rate mask for this frame
    which is transmitted due to scanning or offchannel TX, not in normal
    operation on the interface.

`IEEE80211_TX_CTRL_MLO_LINK`
:   If not **IEEE80211\_LINK\_UNSPECIFIED**, this
    frame should be transmitted on the specific link. This really is
    only relevant for frames that do not have data present, and is
    also not used for 802.3 format frames. Note that even if the frame
    is on a specific link, address translation might still apply if
    it’s intended for an MLD.

**Description**

These flags are used in tx\_info->control.flags.

enum mac80211\_rate\_control\_flags
:   per-rate flags set by the Rate Control algorithm.

**Constants**

`IEEE80211_TX_RC_USE_RTS_CTS`
:   Use RTS/CTS exchange for this rate.

`IEEE80211_TX_RC_USE_CTS_PROTECT`
:   CTS-to-self protection is required.
    This is set if the current BSS requires ERP protection.

`IEEE80211_TX_RC_USE_SHORT_PREAMBLE`
:   Use short preamble.

`IEEE80211_TX_RC_MCS`
:   HT rate.

`IEEE80211_TX_RC_GREEN_FIELD`
:   Indicates whether this rate should be used in
    Greenfield mode.

`IEEE80211_TX_RC_40_MHZ_WIDTH`
:   Indicates if the Channel Width should be 40 MHz.

`IEEE80211_TX_RC_DUP_DATA`
:   The frame should be transmitted on both of the
    adjacent 20 MHz channels, if the current channel type is
    NL80211\_CHAN\_HT40MINUS or NL80211\_CHAN\_HT40PLUS.

`IEEE80211_TX_RC_SHORT_GI`
:   Short Guard interval should be used for this rate.

`IEEE80211_TX_RC_VHT_MCS`
:   VHT MCS rate, in this case the idx field is split
    into a higher 4 bits (Nss) and lower 4 bits (MCS number)

`IEEE80211_TX_RC_80_MHZ_WIDTH`
:   Indicates 80 MHz transmission

`IEEE80211_TX_RC_160_MHZ_WIDTH`
:   Indicates 160 MHz transmission
    (80+80 isn’t supported yet)

**Description**

These flags are set by the Rate control algorithm for each rate during tx,
in the **flags** member of [`struct ieee80211_tx_rate`](#c.ieee80211_tx_rate "ieee80211_tx_rate").

struct ieee80211\_tx\_rate
:   rate selection/status

**Definition**:

```
struct ieee80211_tx_rate {
    s8 idx;
    u16 count:5, flags:11;
};
```

**Members**

`idx`
:   rate index to attempt to send with

`count`
:   number of tries in this rate before going to the next rate

`flags`
:   rate control flags ([`enum mac80211_rate_control_flags`](#c.mac80211_rate_control_flags "mac80211_rate_control_flags"))

**Description**

A value of -1 for **idx** indicates an invalid rate and, if used
in an array of retry rates, that no more rates should be tried.

When used for transmit status reporting, the driver should
always report the rate along with the flags it used.

[`struct ieee80211_tx_info`](#c.ieee80211_tx_info "ieee80211_tx_info") contains an array of these structs
in the control information, and it will be filled by the rate
control algorithm according to what should be sent. For example,
if this array contains, in the format { <idx>, <count> } the
information:

```
{ 3, 2 }, { 2, 2 }, { 1, 4 }, { -1, 0 }, { -1, 0 }
```

then this means that the frame should be transmitted
up to twice at rate 3, up to twice at rate 2, and up to four
times at rate 1 if it doesn’t get acknowledged. Say it gets
acknowledged by the peer after the fifth attempt, the status
information should then contain:

```
{ 3, 2 }, { 2, 2 }, { 1, 1 }, { -1, 0 } ...
```

since it was transmitted twice at rate 3, twice at rate 2
and once at rate 1 after which we received an acknowledgement.

struct ieee80211\_tx\_info
:   skb transmit information

**Definition**:

```
struct ieee80211_tx_info {
    u32 flags;
    u32 band:3, status_data_idr:1, status_data:13, hw_queue:4, tx_time_est:10;
    union {
        struct {
            union {
                struct {
                    struct ieee80211_tx_rate rates[ IEEE80211_TX_MAX_RATES];
                    s8 rts_cts_rate_idx;
                    u8 use_rts:1;
                    u8 use_cts_prot:1;
                    u8 short_preamble:1;
                    u8 skip_table:1;
                    u8 antennas:2;
                };
                unsigned long jiffies;
            };
            struct ieee80211_vif *vif;
            struct ieee80211_key_conf *hw_key;
            u32 flags;
            codel_time_t enqueue_time;
        } control;
        struct {
            u64 cookie;
        } ack;
        struct {
            struct ieee80211_tx_rate rates[IEEE80211_TX_MAX_RATES];
            s32 ack_signal;
            u8 ampdu_ack_len;
            u8 ampdu_len;
            u8 antenna;
            u8 pad;
            u16 tx_time;
            u8 flags;
            u8 pad2;
            void *status_driver_data[16 / sizeof(void *)];
        } status;
        struct {
            struct ieee80211_tx_rate driver_rates[ IEEE80211_TX_MAX_RATES];
            u8 pad[4];
            void *rate_driver_data[ IEEE80211_TX_INFO_RATE_DRIVER_DATA_SIZE / sizeof(void *)];
        };
        void *driver_data[ IEEE80211_TX_INFO_DRIVER_DATA_SIZE / sizeof(void *)];
    };
};
```

**Members**

`flags`
:   transmit info flags, defined above

`band`
:   the band to transmit on (use e.g. for checking for races),
    not valid if the interface is an MLD since we won’t know which
    link the frame will be transmitted on

`status_data_idr`
:   indicates status data is IDR allocated ID for ack frame

`status_data`
:   internal data for TX status handling, assigned privately,
    see also `enum ieee80211_status_data` for the internal documentation

`hw_queue`
:   HW queue to put the frame on, `skb_get_queue_mapping()` gives the AC

`tx_time_est`
:   TX time estimate in units of 4us, used internally

`{unnamed_union}`
:   anonymous

`control`
:   `union part` for control data

`{unnamed_union}`
:   anonymous

`{unnamed_struct}`
:   anonymous

`control.rates`
:   TX rates array to try

`control.rts_cts_rate_idx`
:   rate for RTS or CTS

`control.use_rts`
:   use RTS

`control.use_cts_prot`
:   use RTS/CTS

`control.short_preamble`
:   use short preamble (CCK only)

`control.skip_table`
:   skip externally configured rate table

`control.jiffies`
:   timestamp for expiry on powersave clients

`control.vif`
:   virtual interface (may be NULL)

`control.hw_key`
:   key to encrypt with (may be NULL)

`control.flags`
:   control flags, see [`enum mac80211_tx_control_flags`](#c.mac80211_tx_control_flags "mac80211_tx_control_flags")

`control.enqueue_time`
:   enqueue time (for iTXQs)

`ack`
:   `union part` for pure ACK data

`ack.cookie`
:   cookie for the ACK

`status`
:   `union part` for status data

`status.rates`
:   attempted rates

`status.ack_signal`
:   ACK signal

`status.ampdu_ack_len`
:   AMPDU ack length

`status.ampdu_len`
:   AMPDU length

`status.antenna`
:   (legacy, kept only for iwlegacy)

`status.tx_time`
:   airtime consumed for transmission; note this is only
    used for WMM AC, not for airtime fairness

`status.flags`
:   status flags, see `enum mac80211_tx_status_flags`

`status.status_driver_data`
:   driver use area

`{unnamed_struct}`
:   anonymous

`driver_rates`
:   alias to **control.rates** to reserve space

`pad`
:   padding

`rate_driver_data`
:   driver use area if driver needs **control.rates**

`driver_data`
:   array of driver\_data pointers

**Description**

This structure is placed in skb->cb for three uses:
:   1. mac80211 TX control - mac80211 tells the driver what to do
    2. driver internal use (if applicable)
    3. TX status information - driver tells mac80211 what happened

void ieee80211\_tx\_info\_clear\_status(struct [ieee80211\_tx\_info](#c.ieee80211_tx_info "ieee80211_tx_info") \*info)
:   clear TX status

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_tx_info *info`
:   The [`struct ieee80211_tx_info`](#c.ieee80211_tx_info "ieee80211_tx_info") to be cleared.

**Description**

When the driver passes an skb back to mac80211, it must report
a number of things in TX status. This function clears everything
in the TX status but the rate control information (it does clear
the count since you need to fill that in anyway).

**NOTE**

While the rates array is kept intact, this will wipe all of the
:   driver\_data fields in info, so it’s up to the driver to restore
    any fields it needs after calling this helper.

enum mac80211\_rx\_flags
:   receive flags

**Constants**

`RX_FLAG_MMIC_ERROR`
:   Michael MIC error was reported on this frame.
    Use together with `RX_FLAG_MMIC_STRIPPED`.

`RX_FLAG_DECRYPTED`
:   This frame was decrypted in hardware.

`RX_FLAG_ONLY_MONITOR`
:   Report frame only to monitor interfaces without
    processing it in any regular way.
    This is useful if drivers offload some frames but still want to report
    them for sniffing purposes.

`RX_FLAG_MMIC_STRIPPED`
:   the Michael MIC is stripped off this frame,
    verification has been done by the hardware.

`RX_FLAG_IV_STRIPPED`
:   The IV and ICV are stripped from this frame.
    If this flag is set, the stack cannot do any replay detection
    hence the driver or hardware will have to do that.

`RX_FLAG_FAILED_FCS_CRC`
:   Set this flag if the FCS check failed on
    the frame.

`RX_FLAG_FAILED_PLCP_CRC`
:   Set this flag if the PCLP check failed on
    the frame.

`RX_FLAG_MACTIME_IS_RTAP_TS64`
:   The timestamp passed in the RX status **mactime**
    is only for use in the radiotap timestamp header, not otherwise a valid
    **mactime** value. Note this is a separate flag so that we continue to see
    `RX_FLAG_MACTIME` as unset. Also note that in this case the timestamp is
    reported to be 64 bits wide, not just 32.

`RX_FLAG_NO_SIGNAL_VAL`
:   The signal strength value is not present.
    Valid only for data frames (mainly A-MPDU)

`RX_FLAG_AMPDU_DETAILS`
:   A-MPDU details are known, in particular the reference
    number (**ampdu\_reference**) must be populated and be a distinct number for
    each A-MPDU

`RX_FLAG_PN_VALIDATED`
:   Currently only valid for CCMP/GCMP frames, this
    flag indicates that the PN was verified for replay protection.
    Note that this flag is also currently only supported when a frame
    is also decrypted (ie. **RX\_FLAG\_DECRYPTED** must be set)

`RX_FLAG_DUP_VALIDATED`
:   The driver should set this flag if it did
    de-duplication by itself.

`RX_FLAG_AMPDU_LAST_KNOWN`
:   last subframe is known, should be set on all
    subframes of a single A-MPDU

`RX_FLAG_AMPDU_IS_LAST`
:   this subframe is the last subframe of the A-MPDU

`RX_FLAG_AMPDU_DELIM_CRC_ERROR`
:   A delimiter CRC error has been detected
    on this subframe

`RX_FLAG_MACTIME`
:   The timestamp passed in the RX status (**mactime**
    field) is valid if this field is non-zero, and the position
    where the timestamp was sampled depends on the value.

`RX_FLAG_MACTIME_PLCP_START`
:   The timestamp passed in the RX status (**mactime**
    field) is valid and contains the time the SYNC preamble was received.

`RX_FLAG_MACTIME_START`
:   The timestamp passed in the RX status (**mactime**
    field) is valid and contains the time the first symbol of the MPDU
    was received. This is useful in monitor mode and for proper IBSS
    merging.

`RX_FLAG_MACTIME_END`
:   The timestamp passed in the RX status (**mactime**
    field) is valid and contains the time the last symbol of the MPDU
    (including FCS) was received.

`RX_FLAG_SKIP_MONITOR`
:   Process and report frame to all interfaces except
    monitor interfaces.
    This is useful if drivers offload some frames but still want to report
    them for sniffing purposes.

`RX_FLAG_AMSDU_MORE`
:   Some drivers may prefer to report separate A-MSDU
    subframes instead of a one huge frame for performance reasons.
    All, but the last MSDU from an A-MSDU should have this flag set. E.g.
    if an A-MSDU has 3 frames, the first 2 must have the flag set, while
    the 3rd (last) one must not have this flag set. The flag is used to
    deal with retransmission/duplication recovery properly since A-MSDU
    subframes share the same sequence number. Reported subframes can be
    either regular MSDU or singly A-MSDUs. Subframes must not be
    interleaved with other frames.

`RX_FLAG_RADIOTAP_TLV_AT_END`
:   This frame contains radiotap TLVs in the
    skb->data (before the 802.11 header).
    If used, the SKB’s mac\_header pointer must be set to point
    to the 802.11 header after the TLVs, and any padding added after TLV
    data to align to 4 must be cleared by the driver putting the TLVs
    in the skb.

`RX_FLAG_MIC_STRIPPED`
:   The mic was stripped of this packet. Decryption was
    done by the hardware

`RX_FLAG_ALLOW_SAME_PN`
:   Allow the same PN as same packet before.
    This is used for AMSDU subframes which can have the same PN as
    the first subframe.

`RX_FLAG_ICV_STRIPPED`
:   The ICV is stripped from this frame. CRC checking must
    be done in the hardware.

`RX_FLAG_AMPDU_EOF_BIT`
:   Value of the EOF bit in the A-MPDU delimiter for this
    frame

`RX_FLAG_AMPDU_EOF_BIT_KNOWN`
:   The EOF value is known

`RX_FLAG_RADIOTAP_HE`
:   HE radiotap data is present
    (`struct ieee80211_radiotap_he`, mac80211 will fill in

`RX_FLAG_RADIOTAP_HE_MU`
:   HE MU radiotap data is present
    (`struct ieee80211_radiotap_he_mu`)

`RX_FLAG_RADIOTAP_LSIG`
:   L-SIG radiotap data is present

`RX_FLAG_NO_PSDU`
:   use the frame only for radiotap reporting, with
    the “0-length PSDU” field included there. The value for it is
    in [`struct ieee80211_rx_status`](#c.ieee80211_rx_status "ieee80211_rx_status"). Note that if this value isn’t
    known the frame shouldn’t be reported.

`RX_FLAG_8023`
:   the frame has an 802.3 header (decap offload performed by
    hardware or driver)

`RX_FLAG_RADIOTAP_VHT`
:   VHT radiotap data is present

**Description**

These flags are used with the **flag** member of [`struct ieee80211_rx_status`](#c.ieee80211_rx_status "ieee80211_rx_status").

> > * DATA3\_DATA\_MCS
> > * DATA3\_DATA\_DCM
> > * DATA3\_CODING
> > * DATA5\_GI
> > * DATA5\_DATA\_BW\_RU\_ALLOC
> > * DATA6\_NSTS
> > * DATA3\_STBC
>
> from the RX info data, so leave those zeroed when building this data)

enum mac80211\_rx\_encoding\_flags
:   MCS & bandwidth flags

**Constants**

`RX_ENC_FLAG_SHORTPRE`
:   Short preamble was used for this frame

`RX_ENC_FLAG_SHORT_GI`
:   Short guard interval was used

`RX_ENC_FLAG_HT_GF`
:   This frame was received in a HT-greenfield transmission,
    if the driver fills this value it should add
    `IEEE80211_RADIOTAP_MCS_HAVE_FMT`
    to **hw.radiotap\_mcs\_details** to advertise that fact.

`RX_ENC_FLAG_STBC_MASK`
:   STBC 2 bit bitmask. 1 - Nss=1, 2 - Nss=2, 3 - Nss=3

`RX_ENC_FLAG_LDPC`
:   LDPC was used

`RX_ENC_FLAG_BF`
:   packet was beamformed

struct ieee80211\_rx\_status
:   receive status

**Definition**:

```
struct ieee80211_rx_status {
    u64 mactime;
    union {
        u64 boottime_ns;
        ktime_t ack_tx_hwtstamp;
    };
    u32 device_timestamp;
    u32 ampdu_reference;
    u32 flag;
    u16 freq: 13, freq_offset: 1;
    u8 enc_flags;
    u8 encoding:3, bw:4;
    union {
        struct {
            u8 he_ru:3;
            u8 he_gi:2;
            u8 he_dcm:1;
        };
        struct {
            u8 ru:4;
            u8 gi:2;
        } eht;
        struct {
            u8 ru:4;
            u8 gi:2;
            u8 elr:1;
            u8 im:1;
        } uhr;
    };
    u8 rate_idx;
    u8 nss;
    u8 rx_flags;
    u8 band;
    u8 antenna;
    s8 signal;
    u8 chains;
    s8 chain_signal[IEEE80211_MAX_CHAINS];
    u8 zero_length_psdu_type;
    u8 link_valid:1, link_id:4;
};
```

**Members**

`mactime`
:   value in microseconds of the 64-bit Time Synchronization Function
    (TSF) timer when the first data symbol (MPDU) arrived at the hardware.

`{unnamed_union}`
:   anonymous

`boottime_ns`
:   CLOCK\_BOOTTIME timestamp the frame was received at, this is
    needed only for beacons and probe responses that update the scan cache.

`ack_tx_hwtstamp`
:   Hardware timestamp for the ack TX in nanoseconds. Only
    needed for Timing measurement and Fine timing measurement action frames.
    Only reported by devices that have timestamping enabled.

`device_timestamp`
:   arbitrary timestamp for the device, mac80211 doesn’t use
    it but can store it and pass it back to the driver for synchronisation

`ampdu_reference`
:   A-MPDU reference number, must be a different value for
    each A-MPDU but the same for each subframe within one A-MPDU

`flag`
:   `RX_FLAG_`\*

`freq`
:   frequency the radio was tuned to when receiving this frame, in MHz
    This field must be set for management frames, but isn’t strictly needed
    for data (other) frames - for those it only affects radiotap reporting.

`freq_offset`
:   **freq** has a positive offset of 500Khz.

`enc_flags`
:   uses bits from [`enum mac80211_rx_encoding_flags`](#c.mac80211_rx_encoding_flags "mac80211_rx_encoding_flags")

`encoding`
:   `enum mac80211_rx_encoding`

`bw`
:   `enum rate_info_bw`

`{unnamed_union}`
:   anonymous

`{unnamed_struct}`
:   anonymous

`he_ru`
:   HE RU, from `enum nl80211_he_ru_alloc`

`he_gi`
:   HE GI, from `enum nl80211_he_gi`

`he_dcm`
:   HE DCM value

`eht`
:   EHT specific rate information

`eht.ru`
:   EHT RU, from `enum nl80211_eht_ru_alloc`

`eht.gi`
:   EHT GI, from `enum nl80211_eht_gi`

`uhr`
:   UHR specific rate information

`uhr.ru`
:   UHR RU, from `enum nl80211_eht_ru_alloc`

`uhr.gi`
:   UHR GI, from `enum nl80211_eht_gi`

`uhr.elr`
:   UHR ELR MCS was used

`uhr.im`
:   UHR interference mitigation was used

`rate_idx`
:   index of data rate into band’s supported rates or MCS index if
    HT or VHT is used (`RX_FLAG_HT`/`RX_FLAG_VHT`)

`nss`
:   number of streams (VHT, HE, EHT and UHR only)

`rx_flags`
:   internal RX flags for mac80211

`band`
:   the active band when this frame was received

`antenna`
:   antenna used

`signal`
:   signal strength when receiving this frame, either in dBm, in dB or
    unspecified depending on the hardware capabilities flags
    **IEEE80211\_HW\_SIGNAL\_\***

`chains`
:   bitmask of receive chains for which separate signal strength
    values were filled.

`chain_signal`
:   per-chain signal strength, in dBm (unlike **signal**, doesn’t
    support dB or unspecified units)

`zero_length_psdu_type`
:   radiotap type of the 0-length PSDU

`link_valid`
:   if the link which is identified by **link\_id** is valid. This flag
    is set only when connection is MLO.

`link_id`
:   id of the link used to receive the packet. This is used along with
    **link\_valid**.

**Description**

The low-level driver should provide this information (the subset
supported by hardware) to the 802.11 code with each received
frame, in the skb’s control buffer (cb).

void ieee80211\_rx(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, struct [sk\_buff](../../networking/kapi.html#c.sk_buff "sk_buff") \*skb)
:   receive frame

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   the hardware this frame came in on

`struct sk_buff *skb`
:   the buffer to receive, owned by mac80211 after this call

**Description**

Use this function to hand received frames to mac80211. The receive
buffer in **skb** must start with an IEEE 802.11 header. In case of a
paged **skb** is used, the driver is recommended to put the ieee80211
header of the frame on the linear part of the **skb** to avoid memory
allocation and/or memcpy by the stack.

This function may not be called in IRQ context. Calls to this function
for a single hardware must be synchronized against each other. Calls to
this function, [`ieee80211_rx_ni()`](#c.ieee80211_rx_ni "ieee80211_rx_ni") and [`ieee80211_rx_irqsafe()`](#c.ieee80211_rx_irqsafe "ieee80211_rx_irqsafe") may not be
mixed for a single hardware. Must not run concurrently with
[`ieee80211_tx_status_skb()`](#c.ieee80211_tx_status_skb "ieee80211_tx_status_skb") or [`ieee80211_tx_status_ni()`](#c.ieee80211_tx_status_ni "ieee80211_tx_status_ni").

In process context use instead [`ieee80211_rx_ni()`](#c.ieee80211_rx_ni "ieee80211_rx_ni").

void ieee80211\_rx\_irqsafe(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, struct [sk\_buff](../../networking/kapi.html#c.sk_buff "sk_buff") \*skb)
:   receive frame

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   the hardware this frame came in on

`struct sk_buff *skb`
:   the buffer to receive, owned by mac80211 after this call

**Description**

Like [`ieee80211_rx()`](#c.ieee80211_rx "ieee80211_rx") but can be called in IRQ context
(internally defers to a tasklet.)

Calls to this function, [`ieee80211_rx()`](#c.ieee80211_rx "ieee80211_rx") or [`ieee80211_rx_ni()`](#c.ieee80211_rx_ni "ieee80211_rx_ni") may not
be mixed for a single hardware.Must not run concurrently with
[`ieee80211_tx_status_skb()`](#c.ieee80211_tx_status_skb "ieee80211_tx_status_skb") or [`ieee80211_tx_status_ni()`](#c.ieee80211_tx_status_ni "ieee80211_tx_status_ni").

void ieee80211\_rx\_ni(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, struct [sk\_buff](../../networking/kapi.html#c.sk_buff "sk_buff") \*skb)
:   receive frame (in process context)

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   the hardware this frame came in on

`struct sk_buff *skb`
:   the buffer to receive, owned by mac80211 after this call

**Description**

Like [`ieee80211_rx()`](#c.ieee80211_rx "ieee80211_rx") but can be called in process context
(internally disables bottom halves).

Calls to this function, [`ieee80211_rx()`](#c.ieee80211_rx "ieee80211_rx") and [`ieee80211_rx_irqsafe()`](#c.ieee80211_rx_irqsafe "ieee80211_rx_irqsafe") may
not be mixed for a single hardware. Must not run concurrently with
[`ieee80211_tx_status_skb()`](#c.ieee80211_tx_status_skb "ieee80211_tx_status_skb") or [`ieee80211_tx_status_ni()`](#c.ieee80211_tx_status_ni "ieee80211_tx_status_ni").

void ieee80211\_tx\_status\_skb(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, struct [sk\_buff](../../networking/kapi.html#c.sk_buff "sk_buff") \*skb)
:   transmit status callback

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   the hardware the frame was transmitted by

`struct sk_buff *skb`
:   the frame that was transmitted, owned by mac80211 after this call

**Description**

Call this function for all transmitted frames after they have been
transmitted. It is permissible to not call this function for
multicast frames but this can affect statistics.

This function may not be called in IRQ context. Calls to this function
for a single hardware must be synchronized against each other. Calls
to this function, [`ieee80211_tx_status_ni()`](#c.ieee80211_tx_status_ni "ieee80211_tx_status_ni") and [`ieee80211_tx_status_irqsafe()`](#c.ieee80211_tx_status_irqsafe "ieee80211_tx_status_irqsafe")
may not be mixed for a single hardware. Must not run concurrently with
[`ieee80211_rx()`](#c.ieee80211_rx "ieee80211_rx") or [`ieee80211_rx_ni()`](#c.ieee80211_rx_ni "ieee80211_rx_ni").

void ieee80211\_tx\_status\_ni(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, struct [sk\_buff](../../networking/kapi.html#c.sk_buff "sk_buff") \*skb)
:   transmit status callback (in process context)

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   the hardware the frame was transmitted by

`struct sk_buff *skb`
:   the frame that was transmitted, owned by mac80211 after this call

**Description**

Like [`ieee80211_tx_status_skb()`](#c.ieee80211_tx_status_skb "ieee80211_tx_status_skb") but can be called in process context.

Calls to this function, [`ieee80211_tx_status_skb()`](#c.ieee80211_tx_status_skb "ieee80211_tx_status_skb") and
[`ieee80211_tx_status_irqsafe()`](#c.ieee80211_tx_status_irqsafe "ieee80211_tx_status_irqsafe") may not be mixed
for a single hardware.

void ieee80211\_tx\_status\_irqsafe(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, struct [sk\_buff](../../networking/kapi.html#c.sk_buff "sk_buff") \*skb)
:   IRQ-safe transmit status callback

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   the hardware the frame was transmitted by

`struct sk_buff *skb`
:   the frame that was transmitted, owned by mac80211 after this call

**Description**

Like [`ieee80211_tx_status_skb()`](#c.ieee80211_tx_status_skb "ieee80211_tx_status_skb") but can be called in IRQ context
(internally defers to a tasklet.)

Calls to this function, [`ieee80211_tx_status_skb()`](#c.ieee80211_tx_status_skb "ieee80211_tx_status_skb") and
[`ieee80211_tx_status_ni()`](#c.ieee80211_tx_status_ni "ieee80211_tx_status_ni") may not be mixed for a single hardware.

void ieee80211\_rts\_get(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, struct [ieee80211\_vif](#c.ieee80211_vif "ieee80211_vif") \*vif, const void \*frame, size\_t frame\_len, const struct [ieee80211\_tx\_info](#c.ieee80211_tx_info "ieee80211_tx_info") \*frame\_txctl, struct ieee80211\_rts \*rts)
:   RTS frame generation function

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   pointer obtained from [`ieee80211_alloc_hw()`](#c.ieee80211_alloc_hw "ieee80211_alloc_hw").

`struct ieee80211_vif *vif`
:   [`struct ieee80211_vif`](#c.ieee80211_vif "ieee80211_vif") pointer from the add\_interface callback.

`const void *frame`
:   pointer to the frame that is going to be protected by the RTS.

`size_t frame_len`
:   the frame length (in octets).

`const struct ieee80211_tx_info *frame_txctl`
:   [`struct ieee80211_tx_info`](#c.ieee80211_tx_info "ieee80211_tx_info") of the frame.

`struct ieee80211_rts *rts`
:   The buffer where to store the RTS frame.

**Description**

If the RTS frames are generated by the host system (i.e., not in
hardware/firmware), the low-level driver uses this function to receive
the next RTS frame from the 802.11 code. The low-level is responsible
for calling this function before and RTS frame is needed.

\_\_le16 ieee80211\_rts\_duration(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, struct [ieee80211\_vif](#c.ieee80211_vif "ieee80211_vif") \*vif, size\_t frame\_len, const struct [ieee80211\_tx\_info](#c.ieee80211_tx_info "ieee80211_tx_info") \*frame\_txctl)
:   Get the duration field for an RTS frame

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   pointer obtained from [`ieee80211_alloc_hw()`](#c.ieee80211_alloc_hw "ieee80211_alloc_hw").

`struct ieee80211_vif *vif`
:   [`struct ieee80211_vif`](#c.ieee80211_vif "ieee80211_vif") pointer from the add\_interface callback.

`size_t frame_len`
:   the length of the frame that is going to be protected by the RTS.

`const struct ieee80211_tx_info *frame_txctl`
:   [`struct ieee80211_tx_info`](#c.ieee80211_tx_info "ieee80211_tx_info") of the frame.

**Description**

If the RTS is generated in firmware, but the host system must provide
the duration field, the low-level driver uses this function to receive
the duration field value in little-endian byteorder.

**Return**

The duration.

void ieee80211\_ctstoself\_get(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, struct [ieee80211\_vif](#c.ieee80211_vif "ieee80211_vif") \*vif, const void \*frame, size\_t frame\_len, const struct [ieee80211\_tx\_info](#c.ieee80211_tx_info "ieee80211_tx_info") \*frame\_txctl, struct ieee80211\_cts \*cts)
:   CTS-to-self frame generation function

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   pointer obtained from [`ieee80211_alloc_hw()`](#c.ieee80211_alloc_hw "ieee80211_alloc_hw").

`struct ieee80211_vif *vif`
:   [`struct ieee80211_vif`](#c.ieee80211_vif "ieee80211_vif") pointer from the add\_interface callback.

`const void *frame`
:   pointer to the frame that is going to be protected by the CTS-to-self.

`size_t frame_len`
:   the frame length (in octets).

`const struct ieee80211_tx_info *frame_txctl`
:   [`struct ieee80211_tx_info`](#c.ieee80211_tx_info "ieee80211_tx_info") of the frame.

`struct ieee80211_cts *cts`
:   The buffer where to store the CTS-to-self frame.

**Description**

If the CTS-to-self frames are generated by the host system (i.e., not in
hardware/firmware), the low-level driver uses this function to receive
the next CTS-to-self frame from the 802.11 code. The low-level is responsible
for calling this function before and CTS-to-self frame is needed.

\_\_le16 ieee80211\_ctstoself\_duration(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, struct [ieee80211\_vif](#c.ieee80211_vif "ieee80211_vif") \*vif, size\_t frame\_len, const struct [ieee80211\_tx\_info](#c.ieee80211_tx_info "ieee80211_tx_info") \*frame\_txctl)
:   Get the duration field for a CTS-to-self frame

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   pointer obtained from [`ieee80211_alloc_hw()`](#c.ieee80211_alloc_hw "ieee80211_alloc_hw").

`struct ieee80211_vif *vif`
:   [`struct ieee80211_vif`](#c.ieee80211_vif "ieee80211_vif") pointer from the add\_interface callback.

`size_t frame_len`
:   the length of the frame that is going to be protected by the CTS-to-self.

`const struct ieee80211_tx_info *frame_txctl`
:   [`struct ieee80211_tx_info`](#c.ieee80211_tx_info "ieee80211_tx_info") of the frame.

**Description**

If the CTS-to-self is generated in firmware, but the host system must provide
the duration field, the low-level driver uses this function to receive
the duration field value in little-endian byteorder.

**Return**

The duration.

\_\_le16 ieee80211\_generic\_frame\_duration(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, struct [ieee80211\_vif](#c.ieee80211_vif "ieee80211_vif") \*vif, enum nl80211\_band band, size\_t frame\_len, struct [ieee80211\_rate](cfg80211.html#c.ieee80211_rate "ieee80211_rate") \*rate)
:   Calculate the duration field for a frame

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   pointer obtained from [`ieee80211_alloc_hw()`](#c.ieee80211_alloc_hw "ieee80211_alloc_hw").

`struct ieee80211_vif *vif`
:   [`struct ieee80211_vif`](#c.ieee80211_vif "ieee80211_vif") pointer from the add\_interface callback.

`enum nl80211_band band`
:   the band to calculate the frame duration on

`size_t frame_len`
:   the length of the frame.

`struct ieee80211_rate *rate`
:   the rate at which the frame is going to be transmitted.

**Description**

Calculate the duration field of some generic frame, given its
length and transmission rate (in 100kbps).

**Return**

The duration.

void ieee80211\_wake\_queue(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, int queue)
:   wake specific queue

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   pointer as obtained from [`ieee80211_alloc_hw()`](#c.ieee80211_alloc_hw "ieee80211_alloc_hw").

`int queue`
:   queue number (counted from zero).

**Description**

Drivers must use this function instead of netif\_wake\_queue.

void ieee80211\_stop\_queue(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, int queue)
:   stop specific queue

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   pointer as obtained from [`ieee80211_alloc_hw()`](#c.ieee80211_alloc_hw "ieee80211_alloc_hw").

`int queue`
:   queue number (counted from zero).

**Description**

Drivers must use this function instead of netif\_stop\_queue.

int ieee80211\_queue\_stopped(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, int queue)
:   test status of the queue

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   pointer as obtained from [`ieee80211_alloc_hw()`](#c.ieee80211_alloc_hw "ieee80211_alloc_hw").

`int queue`
:   queue number (counted from zero).

**Description**

Drivers must use this function instead of netif\_queue\_stopped.

**Return**

`true` if the queue is stopped. `false` otherwise.

void ieee80211\_stop\_queues(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw)
:   stop all queues

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   pointer as obtained from [`ieee80211_alloc_hw()`](#c.ieee80211_alloc_hw "ieee80211_alloc_hw").

**Description**

Drivers must use this function instead of netif\_tx\_stop\_all\_queues.

void ieee80211\_wake\_queues(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw)
:   wake all queues

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   pointer as obtained from [`ieee80211_alloc_hw()`](#c.ieee80211_alloc_hw "ieee80211_alloc_hw").

**Description**

Drivers must use this function instead of netif\_tx\_wake\_all\_queues.

## Frame filtering

mac80211 requires to see many management frames for proper
operation, and users may want to see many more frames when
in monitor mode. However, for best CPU usage and power consumption,
having as few frames as possible percolate through the stack is
desirable. Hence, the hardware should filter as much as possible.

To achieve this, mac80211 uses filter flags (see below) to tell
the driver’s `configure_filter()` function which frames should be
passed to mac80211 and which should be filtered out.

Before `configure_filter()` is invoked, the `prepare_multicast()`
callback is invoked with the parameters **mc\_count** and **mc\_list**
for the combined multicast address list of all virtual interfaces.
It’s use is optional, and it returns a u64 that is passed to
`configure_filter()`. Additionally, `configure_filter()` has the
arguments **changed\_flags** telling which flags were changed and
**total\_flags** with the new flag states.

If your device has no multicast address filters your driver will
need to check both the `FIF_ALLMULTI` flag and the **mc\_count**
parameter to see whether multicast frames should be accepted
or dropped.

All unsupported flags in **total\_flags** must be cleared.
Hardware does not support a flag if it is incapable of \_passing\_
the frame to the stack. Otherwise the driver must ignore
the flag, but not clear it.
You must \_only\_ clear the flag (announce no support for the
flag to mac80211) if you are not able to pass the packet type
to the stack (so the hardware always filters it).
So for example, you should clear **FIF\_CONTROL**, if your hardware
always filters control frames. If your hardware always passes
control frames to the kernel and is incapable of filtering them,
you do \_not\_ clear the **FIF\_CONTROL** flag.
This rule applies to all other FIF flags as well.

enum ieee80211\_filter\_flags
:   hardware filter flags

**Constants**

`FIF_ALLMULTI`
:   pass all multicast frames, this is used if requested
    by the user or if the hardware is not capable of filtering by
    multicast address.

`FIF_FCSFAIL`
:   pass frames with failed FCS (but you need to set the
    `RX_FLAG_FAILED_FCS_CRC` for them)

`FIF_PLCPFAIL`
:   pass frames with failed PLCP CRC (but you need to set
    the `RX_FLAG_FAILED_PLCP_CRC` for them

`FIF_BCN_PRBRESP_PROMISC`
:   This flag is set during scanning to indicate
    to the hardware that it should not filter beacons or probe responses
    by BSSID. Filtering them can greatly reduce the amount of processing
    mac80211 needs to do and the amount of CPU wakeups, so you should
    honour this flag if possible.

`FIF_CONTROL`
:   pass control frames (except for PS Poll) addressed to this
    station

`FIF_OTHER_BSS`
:   pass frames destined to other BSSes

`FIF_PSPOLL`
:   pass PS Poll frames

`FIF_PROBE_REQ`
:   pass probe request frames

`FIF_MCAST_ACTION`
:   pass multicast Action frames

**Description**

These flags determine what the filter in hardware should be
programmed to let through and what should not be passed to the
stack. It is always safe to pass more frames than requested,
but this has negative impact on power consumption.

## The mac80211 workqueue

mac80211 provides its own workqueue for drivers and internal mac80211 use.
The workqueue is a single threaded workqueue and can only be accessed by
helpers for sanity checking. Drivers must ensure all work added onto the
mac80211 workqueue should be cancelled on the driver [`stop()`](../../networking/ieee802154.html#c.stop "stop") callback.

mac80211 will flush the workqueue upon interface removal and during
suspend.

All work performed on the mac80211 workqueue must not acquire the RTNL lock.

void ieee80211\_queue\_work(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, struct work\_struct \*work)
:   add work onto the mac80211 workqueue

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   the hardware struct for the interface we are adding work for

`struct work_struct *work`
:   the work we want to add onto the mac80211 workqueue

**Description**

Drivers and mac80211 use this to add work onto the mac80211 workqueue.
This helper ensures drivers are not queueing work when they should not be.

void ieee80211\_queue\_delayed\_work(struct [ieee80211\_hw](#c.ieee80211_hw "ieee80211_hw") \*hw, struct delayed\_work \*dwork, unsigned long delay)
:   add work onto the mac80211 workqueue

**Parameters**

`struct ieee80211_hw *hw`
:   the hardware struct for the interface we are adding work for

`struct delayed_work *dwork`
:   delayable work to queue onto the mac80211 workqueue

`unsigned long delay`
:   number of jiffies to wait before queueing

**Description**

Drivers and mac80211 use this to queue delayed work onto the mac80211
workqueue.
