# Authenticated Encryption With Associated Data (AEAD)

> 출처(원문): https://docs.kernel.org/crypto/api-aead.html
> 자동 미러링: docs.kernel.org · 정본은 출처 URL (영문 원문 자동 변환본)

---

# Authenticated Encryption With Associated Data (AEAD)

## Authenticated Encryption With Associated Data (AEAD) Algorithm Definitions

The AEAD cipher API is used with the ciphers of type CRYPTO\_ALG\_TYPE\_AEAD
(listed as type “aead” in /proc/crypto)

The most prominent examples for this type of encryption is GCM and CCM.
However, the kernel supports other types of AEAD ciphers which are defined
with the following cipher string:

> authenc(keyed message digest, block cipher)

For example: authenc(hmac(sha256), cbc(aes))

The example code provided for the symmetric key cipher operation applies
here as well. Naturally all *skcipher* symbols must be exchanged the *aead*
pendants discussed in the following. In addition, for the AEAD operation,
the aead\_request\_set\_ad function must be used to set the pointer to the
associated data memory location before performing the encryption or
decryption operation. Another deviation from the asynchronous block cipher
operation is that the caller should explicitly check for -EBADMSG of the
crypto\_aead\_decrypt. That error indicates an authentication error, i.e.
a breach in the integrity of the message. In essence, that -EBADMSG error
code is the key bonus an AEAD cipher has over “standard” block chaining
modes.

Memory Structure:

The source scatterlist must contain the concatenation of
associated data || plaintext or ciphertext.

The destination scatterlist has the same layout, except that the plaintext
(resp. ciphertext) will grow (resp. shrink) by the authentication tag size
during encryption (resp. decryption). The authentication tag is generated
during the encryption operation and appended to the ciphertext. During
decryption, the authentication tag is consumed along with the ciphertext and
used to verify the integrity of the plaintext and the associated data.

In-place encryption/decryption is enabled by using the same scatterlist
pointer for both the source and destination.

Even in the out-of-place case, space must be reserved in the destination for
the associated data, even though it won’t be written to. This makes the
in-place and out-of-place cases more consistent. It is permissible for the
“destination” associated data to alias the “source” associated data.

As with the other scatterlist crypto APIs, zero-length scatterlist elements
are not allowed in the used part of the scatterlist. Thus, if there is no
associated data, the first element must point to the plaintext/ciphertext.

To meet the needs of IPsec, a special quirk applies to rfc4106, rfc4309,
rfc4543, and rfc7539esp ciphers. For these ciphers, the final ‘ivsize’ bytes
of the associated data buffer must contain a second copy of the IV. This is
in addition to the copy passed to [`aead_request_set_crypt()`](#c.aead_request_set_crypt "aead_request_set_crypt"). These two IV
copies must not differ; different implementations of the same algorithm may
behave differently in that case. Note that the algorithm might not actually
treat the IV as associated data; nevertheless the length passed to
[`aead_request_set_ad()`](#c.aead_request_set_ad "aead_request_set_ad") must include it.

struct aead\_request
:   AEAD request

**Definition**:

```
struct aead_request {
    struct crypto_async_request base;
    unsigned int assoclen;
    unsigned int cryptlen;
    u8 *iv;
    struct scatterlist *src;
    struct scatterlist *dst;
    void *__ctx[];
};
```

**Members**

`base`
:   Common attributes for async crypto requests

`assoclen`
:   Length in bytes of associated data for authentication

`cryptlen`
:   Length of data to be encrypted or decrypted

`iv`
:   Initialisation vector

`src`
:   Source data

`dst`
:   Destination data

`__ctx`
:   Start of private context data

struct aead\_alg
:   AEAD cipher definition

**Definition**:

```
struct aead_alg {
    int (*setkey)(struct crypto_aead *tfm, const u8 *key, unsigned int keylen);
    int (*setauthsize)(struct crypto_aead *tfm, unsigned int authsize);
    int (*encrypt)(struct aead_request *req);
    int (*decrypt)(struct aead_request *req);
    int (*init)(struct crypto_aead *tfm);
    void (*exit)(struct crypto_aead *tfm);
    unsigned int ivsize;
    unsigned int maxauthsize;
    unsigned int chunksize;
    struct crypto_alg base;
};
```

**Members**

`setkey`
:   see `struct skcipher_alg`

`setauthsize`
:   Set authentication size for the AEAD transformation. This
    function is used to specify the consumer requested size of the
    authentication tag to be either generated by the transformation
    during encryption or the size of the authentication tag to be
    supplied during the decryption operation. This function is also
    responsible for checking the authentication tag size for
    validity.

`encrypt`
:   see `struct skcipher_alg`

`decrypt`
:   see `struct skcipher_alg`

`init`
:   Initialize the cryptographic transformation object. This function
    is used to initialize the cryptographic transformation object.
    This function is called only once at the instantiation time, right
    after the transformation context was allocated. In case the
    cryptographic hardware has some special requirements which need to
    be handled by software, this function shall check for the precise
    requirement of the transformation and put any software fallbacks
    in place.

`exit`
:   Deinitialize the cryptographic transformation object. This is a
    counterpart to **init**, used to remove various changes set in
    **init**.

`ivsize`
:   see `struct skcipher_alg`

`maxauthsize`
:   Set the maximum authentication tag size supported by the
    transformation. A transformation may support smaller tag sizes.
    As the authentication tag is a message digest to ensure the
    integrity of the encrypted data, a consumer typically wants the
    largest authentication tag possible as defined by this
    variable.

`chunksize`
:   see `struct skcipher_alg`

`base`
:   Definition of a generic crypto cipher algorithm.

**Description**

All fields except **ivsize** is mandatory and must be filled.

## Authenticated Encryption With Associated Data (AEAD) Cipher API

struct crypto\_aead \*crypto\_alloc\_aead(const char \*alg\_name, u32 type, u32 mask)
:   allocate AEAD cipher handle

**Parameters**

`const char *alg_name`
:   is the cra\_name / name or cra\_driver\_name / driver name of the
    AEAD cipher

`u32 type`
:   specifies the type of the cipher

`u32 mask`
:   specifies the mask for the cipher

**Description**

Allocate a cipher handle for an AEAD. The returned `struct
crypto_aead` is the cipher handle that is required for any subsequent
API invocation for that AEAD.

**Return**

allocated cipher handle in case of success; [`IS_ERR()`](../core-api/kernel-api.html#c.IS_ERR "IS_ERR") is true in case
of an error, [`PTR_ERR()`](../core-api/kernel-api.html#c.PTR_ERR "PTR_ERR") returns the error code.

void crypto\_free\_aead(struct crypto\_aead \*tfm)
:   zeroize and free aead handle

**Parameters**

`struct crypto_aead *tfm`
:   cipher handle to be freed

**Description**

If **tfm** is a NULL or error pointer, this function does nothing.

unsigned int crypto\_aead\_ivsize(struct crypto\_aead \*tfm)
:   obtain IV size

**Parameters**

`struct crypto_aead *tfm`
:   cipher handle

**Description**

The size of the IV for the aead referenced by the cipher handle is
returned. This IV size may be zero if the cipher does not need an IV.

**Return**

IV size in bytes

unsigned int crypto\_aead\_authsize(struct crypto\_aead \*tfm)
:   obtain maximum authentication data size

**Parameters**

`struct crypto_aead *tfm`
:   cipher handle

**Description**

The maximum size of the authentication data for the AEAD cipher referenced
by the AEAD cipher handle is returned. The authentication data size may be
zero if the cipher implements a hard-coded maximum.

The authentication data may also be known as “tag value”.

**Return**

authentication data size / tag size in bytes

unsigned int crypto\_aead\_blocksize(struct crypto\_aead \*tfm)
:   obtain block size of cipher

**Parameters**

`struct crypto_aead *tfm`
:   cipher handle

**Description**

The block size for the AEAD referenced with the cipher handle is returned.
The caller may use that information to allocate appropriate memory for the
data returned by the encryption or decryption operation

**Return**

block size of cipher

int crypto\_aead\_setkey(struct crypto\_aead \*tfm, const u8 \*key, unsigned int keylen)
:   set key for cipher

**Parameters**

`struct crypto_aead *tfm`
:   cipher handle

`const u8 *key`
:   buffer holding the key

`unsigned int keylen`
:   length of the key in bytes

**Description**

The caller provided key is set for the AEAD referenced by the cipher
handle.

Note, the key length determines the cipher type. Many block ciphers implement
different cipher modes depending on the key size, such as AES-128 vs AES-192
vs. AES-256. When providing a 16 byte key for an AES cipher handle, AES-128
is performed.

**Return**

0 if the setting of the key was successful; < 0 if an error occurred

int crypto\_aead\_setauthsize(struct crypto\_aead \*tfm, unsigned int authsize)
:   set authentication data size

**Parameters**

`struct crypto_aead *tfm`
:   cipher handle

`unsigned int authsize`
:   size of the authentication data / tag in bytes

**Description**

Set the authentication data size / tag size. AEAD requires an authentication
tag (or MAC) in addition to the associated data.

**Return**

0 if the setting of the key was successful; < 0 if an error occurred

int crypto\_aead\_encrypt(struct [aead\_request](#c.aead_request "aead_request") \*req)
:   encrypt plaintext

**Parameters**

`struct aead_request *req`
:   reference to the aead\_request handle that holds all information
    needed to perform the cipher operation

**Description**

Encrypt plaintext data using the aead\_request handle. That data structure
and how it is filled with data is discussed with the aead\_request\_\*
functions.

IMPORTANT NOTE The encryption operation creates the authentication data /
:   tag. That data is concatenated with the created ciphertext.
    The ciphertext memory size is therefore the given number of
    block cipher blocks + the size defined by the
    crypto\_aead\_setauthsize invocation. The caller must ensure
    that sufficient memory is available for the ciphertext and
    the authentication tag.

**Return**

0 if the cipher operation was successful; < 0 if an error occurred

int crypto\_aead\_decrypt(struct [aead\_request](#c.aead_request "aead_request") \*req)
:   decrypt ciphertext

**Parameters**

`struct aead_request *req`
:   reference to the aead\_request handle that holds all information
    needed to perform the cipher operation

**Description**

Decrypt ciphertext data using the aead\_request handle. That data structure
and how it is filled with data is discussed with the aead\_request\_\*
functions.

IMPORTANT NOTE The caller must concatenate the ciphertext followed by the
:   authentication data / tag. That authentication data / tag
    must have the size defined by the crypto\_aead\_setauthsize
    invocation.

**Return**

0 if the cipher operation was successful; -EBADMSG: The AEAD
cipher operation performs the authentication of the data during the
decryption operation. Therefore, the function returns this error if
the authentication of the ciphertext was unsuccessful (i.e. the
integrity of the ciphertext or the associated data was violated);
< 0 if an error occurred.

## Asynchronous AEAD Request Handle

The aead\_request data structure contains all pointers to data required for
the AEAD cipher operation. This includes the cipher handle (which can be
used by multiple aead\_request instances), pointer to plaintext and
ciphertext, asynchronous callback function, etc. It acts as a handle to the
aead\_request\_\* API calls in a similar way as AEAD handle to the
crypto\_aead\_\* API calls.

unsigned int crypto\_aead\_reqsize(struct crypto\_aead \*tfm)
:   obtain size of the request data structure

**Parameters**

`struct crypto_aead *tfm`
:   cipher handle

**Return**

number of bytes

void aead\_request\_set\_tfm(struct [aead\_request](#c.aead_request "aead_request") \*req, struct crypto\_aead \*tfm)
:   update cipher handle reference in request

**Parameters**

`struct aead_request *req`
:   request handle to be modified

`struct crypto_aead *tfm`
:   cipher handle that shall be added to the request handle

**Description**

Allow the caller to replace the existing aead handle in the request
data structure with a different one.

struct [aead\_request](#c.aead_request "aead_request") \*aead\_request\_alloc(struct crypto\_aead \*tfm, gfp\_t gfp)
:   allocate request data structure

**Parameters**

`struct crypto_aead *tfm`
:   cipher handle to be registered with the request

`gfp_t gfp`
:   memory allocation flag that is handed to kmalloc by the API call.

**Description**

Allocate the request data structure that must be used with the AEAD
encrypt and decrypt API calls. During the allocation, the provided aead
handle is registered in the request data structure.

**Return**

allocated request handle in case of success, or NULL if out of memory

void aead\_request\_free(struct [aead\_request](#c.aead_request "aead_request") \*req)
:   zeroize and free request data structure

**Parameters**

`struct aead_request *req`
:   request data structure cipher handle to be freed

void aead\_request\_set\_callback(struct [aead\_request](#c.aead_request "aead_request") \*req, u32 flags, crypto\_completion\_t compl, void \*data)
:   set asynchronous callback function

**Parameters**

`struct aead_request *req`
:   request handle

`u32 flags`
:   specify zero or an ORing of the flags
    CRYPTO\_TFM\_REQ\_MAY\_BACKLOG the request queue may back log and
    increase the wait queue beyond the initial maximum size;
    CRYPTO\_TFM\_REQ\_MAY\_SLEEP the request processing may sleep

`crypto_completion_t compl`
:   callback function pointer to be registered with the request handle

`void *data`
:   The data pointer refers to memory that is not used by the kernel
    crypto API, but provided to the callback function for it to use. Here,
    the caller can provide a reference to memory the callback function can
    operate on. As the callback function is invoked asynchronously to the
    related functionality, it may need to access data structures of the
    related functionality which can be referenced using this pointer. The
    callback function can access the memory via the “data” field in the
    crypto\_async\_request data structure provided to the callback function.

**Description**

Setting the callback function that is triggered once the cipher operation
completes

The callback function is registered with the aead\_request handle and
must comply with the following template:

```
void callback_function(struct crypto_async_request *req, int error)
```

void aead\_request\_set\_crypt(struct [aead\_request](#c.aead_request "aead_request") \*req, struct scatterlist \*src, struct scatterlist \*dst, unsigned int cryptlen, u8 \*iv)
:   set data buffers

**Parameters**

`struct aead_request *req`
:   request handle

`struct scatterlist *src`
:   source scatter / gather list

`struct scatterlist *dst`
:   destination scatter / gather list

`unsigned int cryptlen`
:   number of bytes to process from **src**

`u8 *iv`
:   IV for the cipher operation which must comply with the IV size defined
    by [`crypto_aead_ivsize()`](#c.crypto_aead_ivsize "crypto_aead_ivsize")

**Description**

Setting the source data and destination data scatter / gather lists which
hold the associated data concatenated with the plaintext or ciphertext. See
below for the authentication tag.

For encryption, the source is treated as the plaintext and the
destination is the ciphertext. For a decryption operation, the use is
reversed - the source is the ciphertext and the destination is the plaintext.

The memory structure for cipher operation has the following structure:

* AEAD encryption input: assoc data || plaintext
* AEAD encryption output: assoc data || ciphertext || auth tag
* AEAD decryption input: assoc data || ciphertext || auth tag
* AEAD decryption output: assoc data || plaintext

Albeit the kernel requires the presence of the AAD buffer, however,
the kernel does not fill the AAD buffer in the output case. If the
caller wants to have that data buffer filled, the caller must either
use an in-place cipher operation (i.e. same memory location for
input/output memory location).

void aead\_request\_set\_ad(struct [aead\_request](#c.aead_request "aead_request") \*req, unsigned int assoclen)
:   set associated data information

**Parameters**

`struct aead_request *req`
:   request handle

`unsigned int assoclen`
:   number of bytes in associated data

**Description**

Setting the AD information. This function sets the length of
the associated data.
